HAMMER.
THERE WE GO.
WELCOME TO THE THURSDAY,
SEPTEMBER 14TH TWENTY TWENTY
THREE MEETING OF THE ANN ARBOR
HISTORIC DISTRICT COMMISSION.
THE MEETING IS BEING HELD IN
PERSON AND ELECTRONICALLY THE
RESUME MEMBERS OF THE PUBLIC
WHO WOULD LIKE TO COMMENT ON
HEARINGS OR OTHER MATTERS MAY
DO SO IN PERSON OR VIRTUALLY TO
SPEAK DURING ANY OF THE PUBLIC
COMMENT OPPORTUNITIES.
PLEASE CALL TWO SIX THREE THREE
SEVEN NINE SEVEN TWO THREE OR
TOLL FREE EIGHT SEVEN SEVEN
EIGHT FIVE THREE FIVE TO FOUR
SEVEN AND THEY'RE MEETING ID
NINE SIX FIVE THREE SIX SIX
NINE NINE SEVEN SIX TWO.
THIS INFORMATION IS ALSO
AVAILABLE ON THE PUBLIC AGENDA
IN THE PUBLIC NOTICES SECTION
ON THE CITY WEBSITE AND ON THE
BROADCAST OF THIS MEETING ON
CTM CTY AND CAN BE FOUND ON
XFINITY CHANNEL 16 AT&T CHANNEL
NINETY NINE AND STREAMING
ONLINE ON YOUTUBE OR AT A TAG
WATCH C10 WE INTEND TO CONDUCT
THIS HYBRID EATING SIMILARLY TO
AN IN-PERSON MEETING.
HOWEVER PLEASE BE PATIENT IF
THERE ARE TECHNICAL ISSUES MISS
THATCHER WILL YOU PLEASE CALL
THE ROYAL COMMISSIONER QUIJANO
YEAH COMMISSIONER ROSS
COMMISSIONER CALDERON HERE
COMMISSIONER RACHLIN HERE.
COMMISSIONER FORTNER HERE YOU
HAVE A QUORUM.
REMEMBER THAT SINCE FOUR
MEMBERS ARE PRESENT A TWO TWO
TIE IS A DENIAL.
OK, OK WE'LL GO TO APPROVAL
OF THE AGENDA.
ARE THERE ANY ADDITIONS,
DELETIONS OR CHANGES TO THE
AGENDA?
I'M NOT SEEING ANY DEAL.
WE ARE NOT THERE ARE THERE ARE
MORE MEETING MINUTES IN
LEGISLATOR BUT LET'S WAIT TILL
WE GET TO THAT TO DECIDE IF YOU
WANT TO LOOK AT MORE THAN ONE
SET.
RIGHT.
AND MIA SENT THOSE OUT OK?
SHE DID.
YES.
YES THIS AFTERNOON.
OK, SO AND WITH AN UPDATED
AGENDA AS WELL.
SO THERE ON THAT.
YES.
THANKS MIA.
THANK YOU FOR THAT.
YES.
ME AS MUCH APPRECIATED AND AND
THANK YOU FOR THAT.
SO WE'LL BE USING THAT AGENDA I
ME AS MUCH APPRECIATED AND AND
SUPPOSE AS THE FINAL PUBLISHED
SO WE'LL BE USING THAT AGENDA I
AGENDA.
SUPPOSE AS THE FINAL PUBLISHED
SO THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
AGENDA.
AND SO THEN WITHOUT OBJECT THE
SO THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
AGENDA IS APPROVED AS PRESENTED
AND SO THEN WITHOUT OBJECT THE
NOW WE'LL MOVE ON TO PUBLIC
AGENDA IS APPROVED AS PRESENTED
COMMENT.
NOW WE'LL MOVE ON TO PUBLIC
THIS IS AN OPPORTUNITY FOR
COMMENT.
PERSONS TO SPEAK FOR UP TO
THIS IS AN OPPORTUNITY FOR
THREE MINUTES ABOUT AN ISSUE
PERSONS TO SPEAK FOR UP TO
THAT IS NOT LISTED AS A PUBLIC
THREE MINUTES ABOUT AN ISSUE
HEARING ON THIS AGENDA.
THAT IS NOT LISTED AS A PUBLIC
TO COMMENT ON SUCH OTHER
HEARING ON THIS AGENDA.
PRESERVATION MATTERS, PLEASE
TO COMMENT ON SUCH OTHER
CALL IN USING THE INFORMATION
PRESERVATION MATTERS, PLEASE
DISPLAYED ON THE MEETING AGENDA
CALL IN USING THE INFORMATION
IN THE VIDEO FEED CITY STAFF
DISPLAYED ON THE MEETING AGENDA
WILL SELECT CALLERS ONE BY ONE
IN THE VIDEO FEED CITY STAFF
USING THE LAST THREE DIGITS
WILL SELECT CALLERS ONE BY ONE
OF YOUR PHONE NUMBER TO
USING THE LAST THREE DIGITS
ELECTRONICALLY RAISE YOUR HAND
OF YOUR PHONE NUMBER TO
TO INDICATE YOUR DESIRE TO
ELECTRONICALLY RAISE YOUR HAND
SPEAK PLEASE PRESS STAR NINE ON
TO INDICATE YOUR DESIRE TO
YOUR PHONE YOU WILL HEAR AN
SPEAK PLEASE PRESS STAR NINE ON
AUTOMATED ANNOUNCEMENT THAT THE
YOUR PHONE YOU WILL HEAR AN
HOST IS ALLOWING YOU TO SPEAK.
AUTOMATED ANNOUNCEMENT THAT THE
PLEASE STATE YOUR NAME AND
HOST IS ALLOWING YOU TO SPEAK.
ADDRESS THE BEGINNING OF YOUR
PLEASE STATE YOUR NAME AND
COMMENTS.
ADDRESS THE BEGINNING OF YOUR
DO WE HAVE ANY ONE?
COMMENTS.
NO ONE IS COMING UP HERE AND
DO WE HAVE ANY ONE?
THERE'S NO WARNING NO ONE ON
NO ONE IS COMING UP HERE AND
THE LINE.
THERE'S NO WARNING NO ONE ON
OK, WE WILL MOVE ON THEN TO
THE LINE.
UNFINISHED BUSINESS AND SEEING
OK, WE WILL MOVE ON THEN TO
AS WE DO NOT HAVE ANY WILL GO
UNFINISHED BUSINESS AND SEEING
RIGHT TO HEARINGS AND I WILL
AS WE DO NOT HAVE ANY WILL GO
HAND IT OVER TO STAFF FOR
RIGHT TO HEARINGS AND I WILL
HEARING F ONE FIVE ONE FIVE SE
HAND IT OVER TO STAFF FOR
THANK YOU.
HEARING F ONE FIVE ONE FIVE SE
YES.
THANK YOU.
ALL RIGHT.
FIVE ONE FIVE S FIRST IS A TALL
AND
NARROW TWO STORY GABAL
FRONT THAT FIRST APPEARS IN
PARK CITY DIRECTORIES IN
EIGHTEEN NINETY FOUR WHICH IS
THE YEAR OF OUR FIRST BOOK CITY
DIRECTORIES STAFF HAS BEEN TOLD
ANECDOTALLY THAT THE BUILDING
BEGAN ITS LIFE MUCH EARLIER AS
A GRAIN BARN AND THAT IT WAS
THE FIRST STRUCTURE ON THIS
BLOCK THAT WAS LATER CONVERTED
INTO A RESIDENCE AND ACCORDING
TO A NINETEEN EIGHTY SEVEN
ANTARA NEWS STORY, THIS HOUSE
IS CONNECTED TO THE ONE NEXT TO
IT BY AN UNDERGROUND TUNNEL
THAT WAS DISCOVERED.
IT WAS ABANDONED AND THEN
REDISCOVERED WHEN A HOUSE NEXT
DOOR STARTED SINKING INTO THE
TUNNELS.
IT FEATURES A FULL LENGTH FRONT
PORCH WITH TURN POSTS AND
SPINDLE WORK, WHITEBOARD TRIM
AND ONE OVER ONE WINDOWS THE L
SHAPED FOOTPRINT AND ONE STORY
REAR ADDITIONS ARE FROM THE
PERIOD OF SIGNIFICANCE ONLY A
SMALL REAR SIDE HAS BEEN
ALTERED SOMEWHAT FROM WHAT'S ON
THE NINETEEN THIRTY ONE
SANDBORN MAN ON THE EAST SIDE
OF S FIRST STREET SOUTH OF WEST
JEFFERSON AND NORTH OF WEST
MADISON, THE APPLICANT IS
SEEKING HGC APPROVAL TO
CONSTRUCT A SMALL ADDITION ON
TOP OF THE REAR ONE STORY WING
AND ADD AN EGRESS WINDOW AND
WELL ON THE REAR ELEVATION
OF THE TWO STORY PORTION OF THE
HOUSE.
IN ADDITION A ROOF STRUCTURE ON
THE SOUTH SIDE ELEVATION THAT
WAS INSTALLED WITHOUT PERMITS
WOULD BE REMOVED.
ALL RIGHT.
SO WALKING AROUND THE HOUSE
IT'S TALLER AND NARROWER THAN
ITS NEIGHBORS WHICH MAKES IT A
LITTLE BIT MORE DISTINCTIVE.
THIS IS THE SOUTH SIDE OF THE
HOUSE.
THIS IS A WHITE PORCH ROOF
THAT'S PROBABLY BEEN THERE
SINCE WE WOULD PROBABLY SAY
WHEN WE SEE ON THE SANBORN'S IN
NINETEEN THIRTY ONE THAT IT NO
LONGER IS POOR POSTS IT HAS
THESE SUPPORTS THIS IS A FENCE
AND ON TOP OF THE FENCE IS A
ROOF STRUCTURE THAT'S ATTACHED
TO THE HOUSE AND THAT'S THE ONE
THAT WAS BUILT WITHOUT PERMITS
.
HERE IT IS FROM THE OTHER SIDE.
SO AS PART OF THE APPLICATION
THEY'VE AGREED TO TAKE OFF THIS
ROOF BECAUSE IT'S NOT SOMETHING
THAT QUALIFIES FOR A
CERTIFICATE OF APPROPRIATENESS
AND JUST LEAVE THE FENCE UP.
SO THIS IS THE SOUTH SIDE
OF THE HOUSE.
THIS IS THE THE THE SOUTHEAST
CORNER OF THE HOUSE IN ADDITION
IS PROPOSED TO BE INSET
EIGHTEEN INCHES AND SIT ON TOP
OF THIS ONE STORY WEIGHING
THAT'S FROM THE PERIOD
OF SIGNIFICANCE THIS WINDOW
WOULD BE LOST TO THE ADDITION
BUT NONE OF THE OTHER WINDOWS
WOULD BE IMPACTED.
THERE ARE ALL JUST BE LEFT AS
THEY ARE AGAIN THE ADDITIONS
WOULD GO UP HERE ON TOP OF THIS
ROOF.
IT HAS A SHED THAT COMES OFF
OF THE MAIN HOUSE ROOF THE
OTHER WORK ON THE APPLICATION
IS TO CONVERT THIS GLASS BLOCK
WINDOW INTO AN EGRESS WINDOW IN
A WELL THERE'S WELL
SPECIFICATIONS GIVEN THE THE
WINDOW IS I'LL GET TO THAT IN A
SECOND WHEN I GET TO MY STAFF
REPORT THERE'S ANOTHER SHOT THE
BACK OF THE HOUSE FROM THE
APPLICATION PHOTOS.
IT'S PRETTY SIMPLE.
IT'S PRETTY STRAIGHTFORWARD AND
THIS IS GOING ALL THE WAY
AROUND.
THIS IS THE DRIVEWAY SIDE ON
THE NORTH SIDE OF THE HOUSE.
THERE IS ANOTHER STRUCTURE IN
THE BACKYARD.
IT'S ON THE SAME LOT BUT IT'S A
SEPARATE DWELLING.
A COUPLE MORE APPLICATION SHOTS
OF THAT ROOF STRUCTURE THAT
WOULD BE COMING DOWN.
SO THIS IS A DEMO AND NEW
BASEMENT PLAN.
WHAT WE'RE CONCERNED ABOUT HERE
IS THIS WINDOW WELL, AND WHEN
YOU GO TO TO THE THESE ARE THE
DEMO AND NEW WORK FIRST AND
SECOND FLOOR PLANS YOU CAN SEE
THE FOOTPRINT OF THE NEW
EDITION MATCHES THE SIZE OF THE
EXISTING ONE STOREY EDITION BUT
IT'S SHIFTED EIGHTEEN INCHES TO
THE NORTH IN ORDER TO PRESERVE
THIS BACK CORNER OF THE HOUSE
ON THE SECOND FLOOR AND A PIECE
OF THIS ROOF STRUCTURE THAT I
SHOWED YOU A MINUTE AGO SO THAT
YOU CAN SEE HISTORICALLY WHAT
THAT CORNER LOOKED LIKE AND USE
YOUR IMAGINATION TO FIGURE OUT
THAT THERE WASN'T PREVIOUSLY A
SECOND FLOOR THERE.
HERE YOU CAN SEE A LITTLE BIT
BETTER SHOT OF IT.
THIS IS THE ONE STORY THIS IS
THE TWO STOREY WALL AND THE
WHOLE THING IS JUST SHIFTED
OVER AND SITS ON TOP OF THE
EXISTING ONE STOREY.
AND HERE'S HERE'S THE HERE'S
THE FRAMING PLAN AND HERE'S
THAT THAT ROOF THAT YOU WOULD
STILL BE ABLE TO FIGURE OUT
WHAT IT USED TO LOOK LIKE
BECAUSE IT WOULDN'T BE CHANGED
ON THAT CORNER.
IT'S PRETTY STRAIGHTFORWARD
FROM THE SIDES.
THE EXISTING IS ON THE BOTTOM.
THE PROPOSED IS ON THE TOP
HERE.
NO ADDITIONAL WINDOW ON THIS
SIDE OR ANYTHING IN JUST A SHED
ROOF THE NEW NORTH ELEVATION.
SIMILARLY THERE'S A THERE'S A
WINDOW MISSING FROM THE DRAWING
HERE BUT IT'S NOT SUPPOSED TO
BE REMOVED AND WE'VE GOT JUST
ONE WINDOW ON THE SIDE A LITTLE
AWNING HERE.
IT SHOWS WHAT IT LOOKS LIKE
WITH THE CANTILEVERED EIGHTEEN
INCHES.
IT'S IT'S IT'S IT'S SORT OF A
NOVEL WAY TO DISTINGUISH THIS
CORNER BY JUST MOVING THE WHOLE
THING OVER EIGHTEEN INCHES
RATHER THAN JUST MAKING A
SHORTER BUT I GUESS THAT'S HOW
MUCH ROOM THEY DESIRE TO HAVE
INSIDE THIS LITTLE ROOM ON THE
SECOND FLOOR WHICH WOULD BECOME
A CLOSET AND ALSO THE EGRESS
WINDOW IS NOT SHOWN ON THE REAR
ELEVATION THOUGH IT DOES THERE
IS A WIDE ENOUGH WINDOW THERE.
THE GLASS BLOCK THAT I ALREADY
SHOWED YOU.
SO I'M NOT SUPER CONCERNED.
IT'S IT CERTAINLY WOULDN'T GO
ANY HIGHER THAN EXISTING
OPENING.
IT MIGHT HAVE TO GO DEEPER
BEFORE I GO THROUGH THE
STANDARDS LET ME POINT OUT SOME
THINGS FROM THE STAFF REPORT
THE WINDOWS ARE ALL JELD-WEN
WOOD WINDOWS.
THE CLADDING IS WOOD TO MATCH
THE HOUSE.
I DON'T THINK THIS IS AN ISSUE
SINCE OFFSETTING THE ADDITION
IN THIS DESIGN IS IS PRETTY
DISTINGUISHABLE BY ALL BY
ITSELF THE RED BRICK CHIMNEY IS
PROPOSED TO BE REMOVED ON THE
INTERIOR BUT IS NOT PROPOSED TO
BE REMOVED ON THE EXTERIOR OR
END IT APPEARS ON ALL THE
DRAWINGS.
SO RETAINING THE CHIMNEY IS
INCLUDED AS A CONDITION
OF APPROVAL IN THE MOTION JUST
FOR CLARITY THE WELL FOR THE
EGRESS WINDOW IS PRESSURE
TREATED FOR BY FORCE WITH AN
INTERIOR LADDER.
THE INTERIOR OF THE WELL IS A
LITTLE BIT LARGER THAN THE
THIRTY SIX BY THIRTY SIX INCH
CLEAR AREA THAT'S REQUIRED BY
CODE THE WINDOWS NOT DIMENSION
BUT IT'S A WOOD JELD-WEN DOUBLE
HUNG ONE OVER ONE WITHIN THE
EXISTING OPENING FROM THE
SECRETARY OF INTERIOR STANDARDS
THE ONES THAT MOST APPLY OUR
NUMBER ONE WHICH SAYS A
PROPERTY WILL BE USED AS IT WAS
HISTORICALLY OR BE GIVEN A NEW
USE THAT REQUIRES MINIMAL
CHANGE TO ITS DISTINCTIVE
MATERIALS, FEATURES SPACES AND
SPATIAL RELATIONSHIPS.
NO.9 SAYS NEW ADDITIONS,
EXTERIOR ALTERATIONS OR RELATED
NEW CONSTRUCTION SHALL NOT
DESTROY HISTORIC MATERIALS THAT
CHARACTERIZE THE PROPERTY.
THE NEW YORK SHALL BE
DIFFERENTIATED FROM THE OLD AND
SHALL BE COMPATIBLE WITH THE
MACING SCALE AND ARCHITECTURAL
FEATURES TO PROTECT THE
HISTORIC INTEGRITY OF THE
PROPERTY AND ITS ENVIRONMENT,
NO 10 SAYS NEW ADDITIONS AND
ADJACENT RELATED NEW
CONSTRUCTION WILL BE UNDERTAKEN
IN SUCH A MANNER THAT IF
REMOVED IN THE FUTURE THE
ESSENTIAL FORM AND INTEGRITY
OF THE HISTORIC PROPERTY WILL
BE UNIMPAIRED FROM THE
SECRETARY OF THE INTERIOR
GUIDELINES FOR ADDITIONS IT'S
RECOMMENDED TO CONSTRUCT A NEW
ADDITIONS.
THERE'S THE LEAST POSSIBLE LOSS
OF HISTORIC MATERIALS SO THE
CHARACTER DEFINING FEATURES ARE
NOT OBSCURED, DAMAGED OR
DESTROYED.
ALSO RECOMMENDED TO LOCATE THE
ATTACHED EXTERIOR ADDITION AT
THE REAR OR AN INCONSPICUOUS
SIDE OF A HISTORIC BUILDING
LITIGATES SIZE AND SCALE IN
RELATIONSHIP TO THE START
BUILDING AND DESIGNING NEW
ADDITIONS IN A MANNER THAT
MAKES CLEAR WHAT IS HISTORIC
AND WHAT IS NEW.
IT'S NOT RECOMMENDED TO ATTACH
A NEW ADDITIONS THAT THE
CHARACTER DEFINING FEATURES
OF THE HISTORIC BUILDING ARE
OBSCURED, DAMAGED OR DESTROYED
NOT RECOMMENDED CONTINUED
DESIGNING A NEW ADDITIONS THAT
ITS SIZE SCALE IN RELATION TO
THE HISTORIC BUILDING ARE OUT
OF PROPORTION, THUS DIMINISHING
THE HISTORIC CHARACTER AND FROM
THE GUIDELINES FOR ALL EDITIONS
FROM THE ANN ARBOR HISTORIC
DISTRICT DESIGN GUIDELINES IT'S
NOT APPROPRIATE TO INTRODUCE
ANY NEW BUILDING STREETSCAPE OR
LANDSCAPE FEATURE THAT'S OUT
OF SCALE OR OTHERWISE
INAPPROPRIATE TO THE DISTRICT'S
HISTORIC CHARACTER.
JEEZ, I HAVE A LOT OF THEM IN
HERE.
SORRY ABOUT THAT.
IT'S ALSO APPROPRIATE TO PLACE
NEW WALLS IN A DIFFERENT PLANE
FROM THIS DARK STRUCTURE IN A
SUBORDINATE POSITION TO THE
HISTORIC FABRIC AND TO LIMIT
THE SIZE AND SCALE OF THE
ADDITION AND RELATIONSHIPS THE
HISTORIC BUILDING SO IT DOES
NOT DIMINISH OR VISUALLY
OVERPOWER THE BUILDING OR THE
DISTRICT.
IT'S NOT APPROPRIATE TO DESIGN
AN ADDITION AT THAT OVERPOWERS
A DRAMATICALLY ALTERED THE
ORIGINAL BUILDING THROUGH SIZE
OR HEIGHT.
FINALLY SAFETY CODES IT'S
APPROPRIATE TO COMPLY WITH
BARRIER FREE AND SAFETY CODES
IN A MANNER THAT ENSURES THE
PRESERVATION OF CHARACTER
DEFINING FEATURES SO I DO
RECOMMEND APPROVAL OF THE
ADDITION AND EGRESS WINDOW I
BELIEVE THAT THE WORK MEETS THE
SECRETARY INTERIOR STANDARDS
ARE JUST A FEW OUTSTAND
QUESTIONS ABOUT ABOUT THE
MATERIALS, THE EGRESS WINDOW,
THINGS LIKE THAT.
BUT ALL IN ALL I DON'T THINK
THAT I THINK THAT WORKING
WITHIN THE INFORMATION
PRESENTED IT IS AN APPROPRIATE
APPLICATION.
THANK YOU.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
SO MYSELF AND COMMISSIONER
CALDERON WERE ON THE REVIEW
COMMITTEE TO SO WILL NOW GIVE
US WE'LL NOW GIVE THE REPORT
AND RECOMMENDATION.
DO YOU WANT TO GO FIRST?
SURE.
I WOULD AGREE.
I MEAN FROM FOR INSIDE THE
DECISION IS NOT VISIBLE FROM
THE SIDES.
WELL FROM THE LEFT IN THE RIGHT
IT'S OK.
YEAH YEAH I DON'T HAVE MUCH TO
ADD.
I FORGOT TO MENTION THAT THE
EXISTING WINDOWS IN THE WINDOW
WELLS WERE GLASS BLACK SO
THAT'S SOMETHING TO NOTE THAT
THEY'RE NOT REMOVING ANYTHING
THAT'S THAT'S HISTORIC FROM
THOSE WINDOW WELLS.
I WAS HAVING KIND OF A HARD
TIME IMAGINING WHAT SORT
OF DOUBLE HUNG WINDOW IS GOING
TO FIT IN THE OPENING THAT THE
GLASS BLOCK IS TAKING UP RIGHT
NOW IS SORT OF WIDE RELATIVE TO
THE HEIGHT BUT I IMAGINE THEY
WILL
FIGURE THAT OUT.
AND ALSO IT APPEARED THAT A
DOUBLE WINDOW WAS GOING IN TO
THAT WINDOW WHICH I WAS
SURPRISED BECAUSE USUALLY IF IT
LOOKS LIKE A DOUBLE IT'S ONE
OF THOSE IN SWINGING CASEMENT'S
FOR EGRESS REASONS.
BUT I WILL ASK THE APPLICANT
THAT AND YEAH, I DON'T HAVE
ANYTHING ELSE TO ADD.
SO AT THIS POINT THEN WILL THE
APPLICANT PLEASE EITHER COME
FORWARD IF YOU'RE HERE OR ON
YOUR MICROPHONE AND YOUR VIDEO
PROVIDE YOUR NAME AND ADDRESS
FOR THE RECORD YOU HAVE UP TO
FIVE MINUTES BUT PLEASE LET US
KNOW IF YOU WANT TO ADD
ANYTHING TO THE STAFF REPORT OR
OR COMMENT ON THE REVIEW
COMMITTEE REPORT PLEASE.
HELLO MY NAME IS ROB AND I'M
THE APPLICANT FOR FIVE ONE FIVE
S FIRST AVENUE SO THEY BOUGHT
THAT HOUSE FOR THEIR SON WHEN
HE'S GOING TO UM THEM AND NOW
THAT HE'S BEEN THROUGH THAT
THEY THEY'VE BEEN USING AS THEY
LIVE IN SAIGON EVERYTHING IS
KIND OF LIKE THEIR SECOND HOME
AND NOW THEY'RE GOING TO RETIRE
AND I THINK THAT THEY'RE
FOREVER HOME.
SO THAT'S WHAT WE'RE TRYING TO
YOU KNOW, BRING IT UP TO DATE
WITH THE STANDARD TO GIVE THEM
A WALK IN CLOSET.
THEN THEY NEED ANOTHER BEDROOM
AND WE'RE TRYING TO KEEP
EVERYTHING ON THE BACK SIDE
OF THE HOUSE.
I DON'T THINK ANYTHING THAT
WE'RE DOING IS GOING TO TAKE
AWAY FROM THE HISTORIC VALUE
OF THE HOUSE AND AND THEN
ACTUALLY THE HOUSE BEHIND THESE
PEOPLE SO ON THAT THERE WON'T
BE ANY BLOWBACK FROM FROM THAT
WORK.
I THINK THAT'S ABOUT ALL I GOT
TO PUT IN THERE.
ROB, CAN YOU COMMENT ON THE THE
EGRESS WINDOW?
IS THAT IS IT GOING TO BE A
TRUE DOUBLE HUNG WINDOW IN THE
EGRESS?
WELL, YEAH, BUT I CAN MAKE A
TRUE DOUBLE HOMEWORK AND THEN I
WILL IT WHAT SWINGS IN IT'S
STILL BEING AT WOOD WOOD WINDOW
IF THE THE COUNCIL ALLOWS ME TO
PUT A CASEMENT WINDOW AND THAT
WOULD BE GREAT TOO BUT I CAN
MAKE EITHER ONE WORK WELL YOU
TELL US WHAT YOU WANT AND
REALLY WE'RE RESPONDING TO WHAT
IS IN THE APPLICATION AT WORK.
I WOULD PREFER TO DO A
PLACEMENT IF IT WILL ALLOWED TO
OK THAT'S NOTED AND THEN WHILE
I'M ASKING ABOUT WINDOWS ARE
THE ARE THE JUST CHECKING THE
ARE THE AWNING WINDOWS THAT ARE
BEING INSTALLED IN THE ADDITION
ARE THOSE ALSO THE SAME
STANDARD THAT YOU SHOW OVER THE
DOUBLE HUNG WINDOW.
EXACTLY.
THEY WILL STILL BE THE JELD-WEN
INSIDE AND OUT.
ALL RIGHT.
AND THEN I JUST HAD ONE OTHER
QUESTION AND I JUST WANT TO
CONFIRM CAN YOU LET ME KNOW
LIKE WHY SO SO THE THE ADDITION
IS IS CANTILEVER ING TO THE
NORTH OVER THE HISTORIC FIRST
FLOOR.
AND I'M JUST CURIOUS CAN YOU
GIVE AN EXPLANATION AS TO WHY
YOU NEED THE ADDITION TO THE
OWNER WAS CONCERNED THAT THAT
THAT THE CLOSET WAS GOING TO BE
BIG ENOUGH AND WE DIDN'T WANT
TO COVER UP ANYTHING HISTORIC.
SO WE'RE TRYING TO FIND A HAPPY
MEDIUM.
OK, SO WHAT I'M SEEING IS
THERE'S LIKE A DOOR COMING INTO
THAT CLOSET AND IS THAT OK?
SO IS IT JUST THE SIZE OF THE
CLOSET OR IS IT BECAUSE THAT'S
WHERE IT'S HARD TO TELL
ACTUALLY WHAT'S THE DOOR AND IS
THAT A POCKET DOOR?
IS THE POCKET DOOR BATHROOM OR
IS THE POCKET DOOR IN THE
BEDROOM?
HOW DO YOU GET TO THE CLOSET?
CAN YOU GUYS TELL FROM THE
JOINT YOU HAVE NOT IT'S IT'S
GOING TO BE FROM THE BEDROOM
LOOKS LIKE I THINK IT'S CLOSING
UP.
WOW THAT IS HARD TO TELL.
YEAH.
OK IF NOT THEN THE BACK DOOR IS
FROM THE BEDROOM OK AND THERE
MIGHT HAVE BEEN A WINDOW IN
THAT BATHROOM THAT YOU'RE
REMOVING.
OK SO THEN I GET IT THAT'S WHY
IT NEEDS TO CANTILEVER OVER OR
ELSE YOU WOULDN'T BE ABLE TO
GET IN ANOTHER ROOM KNOCKING
OVER OK I JUST WANTED TO
CONFIRM THAT BECAUSE IT IS IT'S
A LITTLE IT'S A LITTLE AWKWARD
AND THERE'S MORE HISTORIC
MATERIAL BEING REMOVED BECAUSE
OF THE CANTILEVER.
SO I JUST REALLY WANTED TO
CONFIRM THAT IT WAS KIND
OF ESSENTIAL TO THE TO THE
DESIGN.
DOES ANYONE ELSE HAVE ANY
QUESTIONS FOR THE APPLICANT
?
DOESN'T SOUND LIKE IT.
OK, COMMISSIONER QUIJANO
QUESTION FOR THE APPLICANT OK.
YEAH ALL RIGHT.
SO WHAT I DID I MAKE THE OLD
TUNNEL LIVING SPACE IN MY
PRIVATE.
ABSOLUTELY.
GOOD LUCK WITH THAT BECAUSE
IT'S HISTORICAL.
SO YOU HAVE TO KEEP IT OK.
THAT WOULD BE OLBRICH.
GREAT.
OK SO NOW I'D LIKE TO OPEN THE
PUBLIC HEARING FOR THIS ITEM
THIS IS AN OPPORTUNITY FOR
PERSONS TO SPEAK FOR UP TO
THREE MINUTES ABOUT THIS
APPLICATION AT FIVE ONE FIVE S
FIRST RATE.
SO THIS IS WHEN YOU SHOULD RATE
GO STAR NINE ON YOUR PHONE IF
YOU'RE ON YOUR PHONE RIGHT NOW
I DON'T SEE ANYONE HERE AND WE
DON'T HAVE ANYONE ON THE LINE
SO I WILL CLOSE THE PUBLIC
COMMENT AND WOULD COMMISSIONER
LIKE TO MAKE A MOTION ON THIS
APPLICATION COMMISSIONER FOR
SHE JUST BEAT YOU TO IT AND I
HAVE A QUESTION I WAS LOOKING
AT OK AND SAYS SOMETHING ABOUT
NO EXISTING WINDOWS WILL BE
REMOVED ARE LOSING ONE.
THAT'S A GOOD POINT.
I'M JUST DOING HIS RESEARCH.
YEAH.
I'M NOT GOING TO ONLY BUY WHAT
THE PRINT SHOWS.
I CAN'T SWEAR SO YOU EXISTING
WINDOW ON THE SECOND FLOOR
THERE'S A WINDOW RIGHT.
SO WE YEAH.
WE NEED TO ADD THAT IN HERE.
I'M SORRY I WANT TO MAKE SURE
SINCE NO OTHER WINDOWS ARE
BEING DISCUSSED AND SOME
OF THEM AREN'T SHOWN ON THE
ELEVATION'S THAT THEY DON'T
DISAPPEAR DURING CONSTRUCTION
OR SOMETHING BECAUSE THEY'RE
NOT ON THERE OTHER THAN THE
WINDOW ON THE SECOND FLOOR
WHERE THE ADDITION IS GOING
OTHER WINDOWS OR DOORS WILL BE
REMOVED REPLACE YES
, GOT IT.
OH, AND WE'RE GOING TO DO WE
WANT TO GET THE CASEMENT SINCE
THAT'S DIFFERENT THAN THE
EGRESS WINDOW WILL BE
EFFACEMENT WE NEED TO PUT THAT
IN THERE.
YEAH SAY THAT IT DOUBLE HUNG OR
CASEMENT WOULD BE ALLOWABLE.
LET'S PUT THAT RIGHT AFTER THE
CHIMNEY CONDITION
OK THE THREE
CONDITIONS.
YEP.
OK OK SHALL I.
YES PLEASE PLEASE PROCEED I
THAT THE COMMISSION ISSUE A
CERTIFICATE OF APPROPRIATENESS
THE APPLICATION AT FIVE FIFTEEN
S VERSTRAETE A CONTRIBUTING
PROPERTY IN THE OLD WEST SIDE
HISTORIC DISTRICT TO CONSTRUCT
A SECOND STORY EDITION ON TOP
OF THE SINGLE STORY WE'RE
WORKING ON THE FOLLOWING
CONDITIONS THAT OTHER THAN THE
SECOND STORY WINDOW WHERE THE
ADDITIONS WILL BE PLACED NO
OTHER EXISTING WINDOWS ARE
EXTERIOR DOORS ARE REMOVED OR
REPLACED THAT THE EXTERIOR
PORTION OF THE CHIMNEY IS NOT
REMOVED AND THAT THE EGRESS
WINDOW WILL BE A CASEMENT
WINDOW.
THE WORK IS CONDITIONED AS
COMPATIBLE AN EXTERIOR DESIGN
ARRANGEMENT TEXTURE MATERIAL IN
RELATIONSHIP TO THE REST OF THE
BUILDING AND THE SURROUNDING
AREA AND MEETS THE SECRETARY
OF THE INTERIOR STANDARDS FOR
REHABILITATION AND GUIDELINES
FOR REHABILITATING HISTORIC
BUILDINGS IN PARTICULAR
STANDARDS ONE NINE AND TEN AND
THE GUIDELINES FOR ADDITIONS
AND BUILDING SITE IN THE ANN
ARBOR HISTORIC DISTRICT DESIGN
GUIDELINES FOR ADDITIONS AND
SAFETY CODES.
SO OK THAT IS MOVE BY
COMMISSIONER FORTNER AND
SECONDED BY COMMISSIONER
CHIANESE.
IS THERE ANY DISCUSSION ON THE
MOTION
THE SHIFTING OF THE
PETITION?
IT IS A LITTLE ODD.
I UNDERSTAND AND APPRECIATE THE
THE EFFORT TAKEN TO OFFSET THE
EXISTING HISTORIC QUARTER.
THIS IS NORMALLY WOULDN'T SEE
BATMAN EXTENDED TO OVER IN BUT
IF THAT REALLY NOT PRE LOOKED
AS AS LONG AS IT DOESN'T DAMAGE
ANY OF THE HISTORIC
CONSTRUCTION, I'D SAY THERE'S
TWO REASONS WHY IT IS IN OUR
PURVIEW.
ONE IS BECAUSE BY DOING THAT
NOW YOU'VE REMOVED THE FASCIA
BOARD, YOU REMOVE THE SOFFIT
AND
REMOVE THE HISTORIC FREEZE,
REMOVE THE BECAUSE THE FREEZE
IS GOING UP RIGHT.
SO THE FREEZE IS ANGLING BACK
AND THIS IS GOING STRAIGHT OUT.
SO ALL OF THAT HISTORIC MARCH
AND THE OVERHANG SO THE WHOLE
MASSING IS NOW GONE AND THEN
TOO I JUST THINK IF SOMETHING
IS AWKWARD THEN THIS HAS TO BE
DIFFERENTIATE WHICH IT DOES ON
ONE SIDE BUT THEN IT ALSO HAS
TO BE COMPATIBLE AND AND TO BE
AWKWARDNESS CAN BATTLE AGAINST
COMPATIBILITY.
SO I'M WITH YOU AND I DO THINK
IT IS IN OUR PURVIEW TO DISCUSS
SO SO PLEASE FEEL FREE TO
DISCUSS.
YEAH NO I SO WHEN YOU'RE
TALKING ABOUT THOSE COMPONENTS
AND YOU HAVE A SIDE TO ME IT'S
NOT A HIP ROOT IT'S OUT OF HIP
WE'RE LIKE THAT ALL THOSE
THINGS ARE IT'S A SHED SO THOSE
THINGS ARE GOING UP AND SINCE
THIS IS EXTENDING AT THE SECOND
FLOOR LEVEL OUT ALL OF THAT ON
ONE SIDE WILL BE REMOVED AND
THE OTHER TWO SIDES IT'LL BE
REMAINING.
YEAH, YEAH.
SO THAT WAS MY LINE
OF QUESTIONING WITH ROB WAS IT?
I REALLY WANT TO MAKE SURE YOU
ACTUALLY NEED THAT BECAUSE
WE'RE LOSING THINGS.
YEAH.
BY HAVING THAT MOVE BUT I'M
KEEPING THE CORNER.
YES YOU DO.
TWO SIDES AS FAR AS YOU KNOW
THE THE SIDE ELEVATION IN THE
REAR ELEVATION.
YEAH.
AND THAT IS ALSO CRITICAL THAT
THAT'S THE THAT'S THE STANDARD
THAT SAYS YOU NEED TO
DIFFERENTIATE THE NEW FROM THE
OLD IN SOME WAY AND SO THAT'S
WHY THAT'S WHY THAT REALLY WE
REALLY LIKE THAT PART IN THE
CORNER THERE WHERE IT BUMPS IN.
SO THAT IS DEFINITELY
APPRECIATED.
YEAH IT'S JUST ACCESSING THIS
HOLE WITH THE ADDITION.
YEAH.
ANY OTHER COMMENTS ON WHAT
COMMISSIONER TAINOS REFERRING
TO HERE?
DOES IT IS IT BOTHERING ANYONE
OR ARE WE OK WITH IT?
HOW WOULD YOU RECKON I MEAN I
CAN THINK OF ONE THING BUT WHAT
ARE YOU THINKING?
WELL INSTEAD OF ACCESSING THAT
ADDITION WHERE IT'S CURRENTLY
SHOWN I'M READING THE PLAN
CORRECTLY YOU WOULD GO THROUGH
THE BATHROOM WHERE THE WINDOW
RIGHT.
SO I FEEL LIKE THAT KIND
OF STRADDLES THE LINE OF OUR
PURVIEW BECAUSE THAT GETS INTO
YEAH.
YEAH THAT'S THE INTERIOR DESIGN
THERE.
YEAH THERE ADDITION NOW WHICH
IS DEFINITELY OUT OF OUR
PURVIEW I DON'T KNOW IT'S OK.
ANY OTHER COMMENTS ON ANY OTHER
ITEMS IN THE PROJECT HERE.
OK YEAH I'M I'M WITH YOU
COMMISSIONER KIYONO THIS IS
DEFINITELY SOMETHING FOR
DISCUSSION AND I FEEL LIKE IT'S
IN THAT GRAY AREA OF OF
BORDERLINE NOT APPLYING TO THE
STANDARDS BECAUSE IT SEEMS LIKE
THERE WAS MAYBE A WAY TO DO IT
WITHOUT DOING THIS BUT I FEEL
LIKE SINCE IT IS IN THE BACK
OF THE HOUSE AND IT'S OUT
OF THE PUBLIC RIGHT AWAY THAT
EVEN THOUGH I'M NOT SO HAPPY
WITH THAT AND IT'S INCHES
OF THE FLOOR IT'S NOT SO
EGREGIOUS.
YEAH, IT'S JUST THAT ONE LITTLE
BIT THERE AND IT SEEMS TO BE
TAKING ALL THE OTHER BOXES.
SO IT DOES JUST TO ME DOESN'T
SEEM LIKE QUITE ENOUGH TO TO
SAY THAT I'M NOT GOING TO
RECOMMEND YEAH IT'S NOT A
PRIMARY VIEW ELEVATION AND YEAH
IF I WAS EXTENDING ANOTHER FOOT
OR TWO OVER MUCH MORE LOSS
OF MATERIAL.
YEAH.
SO OK ALL GREAT.
ANY OTHER COMMENTS.
OK LET'S GO TO A VOTE THEN ALL
THOSE IN FAVOR PLEASE SAY YES.
YES ALL THOSE OPPOSED PLEASE
SAY NO.
THE MOTION CARRIES YOUR
APPLICATION HAS BEEN APPROVED.
PLEASE NOTE YOU MUST APPLY FOR
A REQUIRED PERMITS FROM THE
CITY BEFORE BEGINNING YOUR
PROJECT.
THANK YOU ROB.
THANK YOU.
I APPRECIATE YOUR I APPRECIATE
YOUR TIME AND I COULDN'T BE
THERE.
WE'RE OUT OF TOWN FOR A WEDDING
SO WE'RE TRYING TO GET MOST
OF THEM AGAIN.
YOU MULTITASK.
SOUNDS GOOD.
WE'LL GET YOU NEXT TIME THEN OK
.
THANK YOU SO MUCH.
THANK YOU.
BYE BYE.
OK WE WILL NOW MOVE ON TO F TWO
FIVE SEVEN E KINGSLY MISS
THATCHER WILL YOU PLEASE GIVE
THE STAFF REPORT AS WELL
WHENEVER YOU'RE READY.
HERE IT COMES.
OK THIS VERNACULAR GREEK
REVIVAL HOUSE APPEARS IN THE
1894 CITY DIRECTORY AS THIRTY I
N STREET THE HOME OF B ST.
JAMES FEATURES ITS FEATURES
INDICATE THAT IT'S PROBABLY
OLDER PERHAPS SIGNIFICANTLY
THOUSANDS FOR OVER FOUR WINDOWS
EQUALLY SPACED WINDOWS THE
FRONT AND SIDE ELEVATIONS AND
THE FRONT DOOR HAS SIDELIGHTS
AT A TRANSOM.
THE TWO THIRDS WITH FRONT PORCH
IS UNUSUAL WITH HEAVY SQUARE
COLUMNS AND I SAID STUCCO
WALLS.
WHEN WE GOT OUT THERE I COULD
SEE THAT THEY ARE NOT IT'S JUST
SORT OF VERTICAL BOARD WALLS
EIGHTEEN NINETY NINE TO
NINETEEN FORTY EIGHT SANDBORN
MAPS SHOW A FULL WIDTH FRONT
PORCH WHETHER THIS IS THE FRONT
PORCH OR NOT WE DO NOT KNOW THE
KINGSLEE INSIDE HANGING ON THE
FRONT CAN BE SEEN IN PHOTOS
FROM THE 1970S THAT'S RIGHT
HERE IN THIS PHOTO IT IS
LOCATED ON THE NORTH SIDE
OF EAST KINGSLY BETWEEN NORTH
DIVISION AND ELIZABETH STREETS
AND THE APPLICANT IS SEEKING
HGC APPROVAL TO REPAVE THE
ASPHALT DRIVEWAY WITH CONCRETE
AND EXTENDED AN ADDITIONAL 17
FEET.
OK, HERE WE'RE LOOKING DOWN THE
EXISTING DRIVEWAY ASPHALT.
IT'S ALL BUSTED UP.
IT'S IN POOR CONDITION.
SOME RECENT SIDEWALK SLAB
REPLACEMENT WORK KIND OF DID A
NUMBER ON THE FRONT WALK HERE.
SO THIS IS GOING TO BE A NEW
SIDEWALK.
SO I HAVE A FRONT WALK SLAB AS
WELL.
THESE BRICKS HAVE BEEN HERE
SINCE THE SEVENTIES.
THEY ARE PROPOSED TO BE REMOVED
AND ARE NOTED AS PLANTING STRIP
AND THE PLANTS THE DRAWINGS AND
IF YOU NOTICE WHERE THIS WHITE
CAR IS, THIS WHITE CAR IS OFF
THE END OF THE PAVEMENT, WHICH
IS ONE OF THE REASONS WHICH IS
WHY THEY'D LIKE TO EXTEND IT
ONE MORE CAR LENGTH.
WHEN I LOOKED AT AERIAL PHOTOS
,YOU KNOW, EVERY FEW YEARS IT
WOULD SWITCH FROM THERE'S GRASS
HERE, THERE'S A CAR HERE,
THERE'S A MUD HOLE HERE NOW
WE'RE BACK TO GRASS AGAIN.
SO OVER THE YEARS IT'S BEEN
USED FOR PARKING ON OFF.
THERE'S A FENCE HERE IN BACK.
THIS SHOWS UP ALL THE WAY DOWN
TO NINETEEN FORTY SEVEN ARIELS
AND THE PROPOSAL IS TO EXTEND
THE CONCRETE TO JUST ABOUT THE
CENTER OF THIS REARMOST
ADDITION WHICH IS JUST ABOUT
WHERE THAT WHITE CAR IS RIGHT
NOW.
SO WHERE YOU SEE THAT WHITE CAR
IS WHERE THE ADDITIONAL
CONCRETE WOULD GO THIS IS THE
APRON DON'T REALLY HAVE TO
WORRY ABOUT THIS.
IT WILL BE REPLACED BY THE CITY
SINCE IT WAS APPARENTLY RIPPED
UP BY THE CITY AS PART OF THE
SIDEWALK WORK.
THEY MAY MAKE IT WIDER.
THIS IS NOT COLD WIND BUT WE'LL
HAVE TO WAIT AND SEE ABOUT THAT
SO THIS IS THE EXISTING ASPHALT
STOPS HERE THE BACK CORNER
OF THE TWO STOREY PART OF THE
HOUSE PROPOSALS TO GO FARTHER
BACK.
THEY ARE LEAVING THIS PLANTING
STRIP HERE SO THEY'RE NOT
PAVING ALL THE WAY UP TO THE
HOUSE WHICH IS APPRECIATED.
IT'S GOING TO BE PRETTY NARROW
BUT I THINK TO KEEP TRASH CANS
AND STUFF BACK HERE ANYWAY AND
SEE A BRICK STRIP HERE IT'S
NOTED AS BRICKS IN THE EXISTING
WAS PROPOSED TO BE A PLANTING
STRIP ALSO IF THEY CHANGE THEIR
MIND AND WANTED TO JUST LEAVE
THE BRICKS THERE UNLESS YOU
THINK THAT THAT'S
INAPPROPRIATE, I THINK THAT
THEY COULD DO THAT.
THEY THEY'RE NOT HISTORIC BUT
YOU BUT THEY ARE PROPOSING TO
REMOVE SO AND IT WOULD GO FROM
ASPHALT CONCRETE DENHA
STANDARDS THAT BEST APPLY ARE
NUMBER ONE WHICH SAYS A
PROPERTY WILL BE USED AS IT WAS
HISTORICALLY OR BEGIN A NEW USE
THAT REQUIRES A MINIMAL CHANGE
TO ITS DISTINCTIVE MATERIALS,
FEATURE SPACES AND SPATIAL
RELATIONSHIPS.
NUMBER TWO SAYS THE HISTORIC
CHARACTER OF A PROPERTY SHALL
BE RETAINED AND PRESERVED
REMOVAL OF HISTORIC MATERIALS
OR ALTERATION OF FEATURES AND
SPACES THAT CHARACTERIZE
PROPERTY SHALL BE AVOIDED, A
NUMBER SAYS NEW ADDITIONS IN
ADJACENT OR RELATED NEW
CONSTRUCTION SHALL BE
UNDERTAKEN IN SUCH A MANNER
THAT IF REMOVED IN THE FUTURE
THE ESSENTIAL FORM AND
INTEGRITY OF THE HISTORIC
PROPERTY AND ITS ENVIRONMENT
WOULD UNIMPAIRED FROM THE
GUIDELINES FOR BUILDING SITE
IT'S RECOMMENDED TO RETAIN THE
HISTORIC RELATIONSHIP BETWEEN
BUILDINGS, LANDSCAPE FEATURES
AND OPEN SPACE AND ALSO THIS IS
NOT RECOMMENDED.
THIS SHOULD ACTUALLY SAY NOT
RECOMMENDED AS REMOVING OR
RADICALLY CHANGING SITE
FEATURES WHICH ARE IMPORTANT IN
DEFINING THE OVERALL HISTORIC
CHARACTER OF THE BUILDING SO
THAT AS A RESULT THE CHARACTER
IS DIMINISHED.
IT'S NOT RECOMMENDED TO
INTRODUCE NEW CONSTRUCTION
UNDER THE BUILDING SITE WHICH
IS VISUALLY INCOMPATIBLE IN
TERMS OF SIZE, SCALE DESIGN
MATERIALS, COLOR OR TEXTURE OR
WOULD YOU DESTROY HISTORIC
RELATIONSHIPS ON THE SITE FROM
THE ANAMBRA HISTORIC DISTRICT
DESIGN GUIDELINES FOR PAVED
AREAS IT IS APPROPRIATE ON
RESIDENTIAL PROPERTIES TO
RETAIN AND MAINTAIN EXISTING
HISTORIC DRIVEWAYS AND CURB
CUTS.
ASPHALT IS NOT A HISTORIC
PAVING MATERIAL IN THIS CASE
INCLUDING TWO TRACK DRIVEWAYS
WHICH THEY DO NOT HAVE AND
GREEN SPACE BETWEEN THE
DRIVEWAY THE HOUSE WHICH THEY
ARE MAINTAINING.
I THINK THAT'S ABOUT IT FOR THE
STAFF REPORT.
I REALLY HAVE NO GRIEF OVER
EXTENDING THIS
WHETHER THERE'S
THREE CARS IN THE DRIVEWAY OR
TWO OR FOUR I DON'T THINK IS A
SIGNIFICANT AND IT'S BEEN USED
THAT WAY FOR AGES AND I DO
THINK THAT THE WORK IS
COMPATIBLE AND I APPRECIATE
THAT THEY'RE GOING TO GO TO
CONCRETE FROM ASPHALT THAT'LL
BE A LITTLE LONGER LASTING
SERVICE.
THANK YOU.
SO MYSELF AND COMMISSIONER
CALDERON, WE'RE ON THE REVIEW
COMMITTEE SO WE'LL GIVE THE
REPORT NOW I'LL GO FIRST AND I
REALLY HAVE NOTHING TO ADD.
I THINK THAT THE STAFF REPORT
REALLY SET IT ALL.
THE DRIVEWAY'S THERE YOU CAN
BECAUSE WHERE THAT CAR IS
PARKED OH UNDER THE WHITE CAR
WAS THERE YOU COULDN'T REALLY
SEE NECESSARILY WHAT WAS THERE
IS BASICALLY KIND OF GRAVELLY
UNDERNEATH THE CAR THERE.
YOU COULD TELL THAT MAYBE LAST
YEAR OR THE YEAR BEFORE THEY
HAD DUMPED SOME GRAVEL DOWN
THERE.
IT FELT LIKE A PARKING SPOT AND
YOU COULD REALLY VERY EASILY
IMAGINE JUST CONCRETE THERE.
SO YEAH.
SO A GREAT JOB FIRST OFF OF THE
BRICKS HAVE BEEN IN PLACE
BEFORE THE OTHER TO HISTORICAL
AGAIN THE CAR WAS ALSO PARKED
OUTSIDE OF THE PAVEMENT BASED
OFF THE RIDGES THAT ARE
UNDERNEATH THE CAR THAT'S BEEN
USED THAT HAS BEEN USED THAT
WAY FOR SOME TIME THIS OR NOW
IF THIS WERE NOT TO BE PASSED
THE ACTUAL PIECE OF LAND WOULD
STILL BE USED AS A DRIVEWAY.
VERY TRUE.
OK, THANK YOU.
SO NOW WITH THE APPLICANT
PLEASE I NEED YOUR MICROPHONE.
TURN ON YOUR VIDEO IF POSSIBLE.
ARE YOU HERE NOW NOW OK AND
PROVIDE YOUR NAME ADDRESS FOR
THE RECORD AND THEN PLEASE LET
US KNOW IF YOU HAVE ANYTHING TO
ADD TO THE STAFF REPORT OR THE
REVIEW COMMITTEE REPORT.
NO ONE ELSE IS PRESENT IN THE
SAME ROOM.
OK, SO WE DON'T HAVE ANYONE SO
WE'LL JUST MOVE ON THEN.
DID ANYONE HAVE ANY QUESTIONS
FOR THE APPLICANT IF THE
APPLICANT WAS HERE I'D BE
CURIOUS TO KNOW BUT I'LL SORT
IT UP BUT ALSO OPEN THE WAS
THERE ANY IT LOOKED LIKE THERE
WERE THOSE EGRESS WINDOWS HIS
BASICALLY YEAH I LIKE WINDOWS.
I WAS JUST LOOKING AT THOSE I
THINK THEY'RE JUST LIGHT WELLS.
THEY'RE NOT NEARLY BIG ENOUGH
TO QUALIFY.
YEAH THEY LOOK PRETTY SCARY
GRASS.
YEAH YEAH.
OK THAT WAS MY ONLY SURE YEAH
THAT WOULD BE TREATED RIGHT.
YEAH MAYBE THEY'D POUR THEY'RE
GOING TO PLAY SIMILAR LIKE YEAH
BE NICE TO REPLACE THOSE YOU
KNOW IT IS THEY'VE BEEN PROVEN
OVER A HUNDRED TIMES.
YEAH IT'D BE NICE TO KNOW IT'S
A GOOD QUESTION FOR THE
APPLICANT.
TOO BAD IT'S NO APPLICANT.
OOPS I DID NOT DO THAT WAS ANY
OTHER QUESTIONS.
I APPRECIATE THE GESTURE TO GO
BACK TO GRASS IN THE FRONT.
YEAH OK SO LET'S DO THE PUBLIC
HEARING SO I'D LIKE TO OPEN THE
PUBLIC HEARING FOR THIS ITEM
AND SO THAT THAT'S OPEN AND I'M
ASSUMING THAT IF YOU SAID
THERE'S NO ONE THEN WE PROBABLY
DON'T HAVE ANYONE FOR THAT
EITHER.
SO I WILL NOW CLOSE THE PUBLIC
HEARING FOR THIS ITEM FIVE OR
SEVEN E KINGSLEE AND NOW I AM
WONDERING AS A COMMISSIONER
WOULD LIKE TO MAKE A MOTION ON
THIS APPLICATION COMMISSION
CASE.
I MOVE THAT THE COMMISSION
ISSUE A CERTIFICATE
OF APPROPRIATENESS FOR THE
APPLICATION FIVE OR SEVEN E
KING STREET CONTRIBUTING
PROPERTY IN THE OLD FOURTH WARD
HISTORIC DISTRICT TO REPAVE THE
ASSAULT DRIVEWAY WITH CONCRETE
AND EXTEND IT AN ADDITIONAL 17
FEET AS PROPOSED.
THE WORK IS COMPATIBLE AND
EXTERIOR DESIGN ARRANGEMENT
TEXTURE MATERIAL IN
RELATIONSHIP TO THE SURROUNDING
RESOURCES AND MEETS ANN ARBOR
HISTORIC DISTRICT DESIGN
GUIDELINES FOR PAVED AREAS AND
LANDSCAPE FEATURES AND THE
SECRETARY OF THE INTERIOR
STANDARDS FOR REHABILITATION IN
PARTICULAR STANDARDS ONE, TWO
AND TEN AND THE GUIDELINES FOR
BUILDING SITE SECOND ARE VERY
GOOD EXCUSE ME THAT WAS MOVED
BY COMMISSIONER DIANA AND
SECONDED BY COMMISSIONER
FORTNER.
IS THERE ANY DISCUSSION ON THE
MOTION FURTHER DISCUSSION.
OK OK.
I THINK THERE'S NO DISCUSSION
BECAUSE IT SEEMS PRETTY
STRAIGHTFORWARD HERE SO LET'S
JUST GO RIGHT TO A VOTE.
ALL THOSE IN FAVOR OF THE
MOTION PLEASE SAY YES.
YES, YES.
ALL THOSE OPPOSED PLEASE SAY NO
.
THE MOTION CARRIES YOUR
APPLICATION HAS BEEN APPROVED
AND GET YOUR PERMITS OK, VERY
GOOD.
NOW WE WILL MOVE ON TO F THREE
AND F THREE IS TWO TWENTY SIX
BLAEN VISTAR.
WHAT'S THAT A ROAD OR A
BOULEVARD OR SCREENNAME LANE
OF EAST JUST ONE POINT OF EAST
YEAH I DON'T KNOW OK SOMETHING
THINK ABOUT AND THE STATURE THE
STEP FORWARD PLEASE.
SO THIS IS WHERE I GET TO GIVE
YOU ALL BIG SURPRISE.
OH WHAT'S THE SURPRISE.
I'VE DONE SOME REVISING THAT
I'M JUST GOING TO TELL YOU WHY
THAT'S A SIDE RECOMMENDATION SO
THIS IS A LOVELY ONE AND THREE
QUARTER START.
GABAL FRONT HAS FRONT CORNER
RETURNS ON THE GABLE'S FOR THE
FRONT PORCH TAPERED COLUMNS
ACTUALLY THESE ARE PRETTY
SQUARE STUCCO ON THE FIRST
FLOOR AND A TRIPLE WINDOW IN
THE FRONT.
GABAL SO THE ADDRESS IT TURNS
OUT DOESN'T APPEAR IN PARK CITY
DIRECTORY THROUGH AT LEAST
NINETEEN FORTY FIVE WHICH
SUGGESTS THE HOUSE WAS TO THE
LIGHT SOMETIME AFTER WORLD WAR
TWO AND JUST THIS AFTERNOON I
WAS ABLE TO DIG UP THE
INFORMATION THAT I NEEDED.
SO HERE'S THE NINETEEN FORTY
SEVEN AERIAL PHOTO.
IT WAS THIS HOUSE THESE LOT
LINES ARE OFF BUT THIS IS IT
RIGHT HERE THIS IS TWENTY
BONAVISTA SO ALL BUILDING
PERMIT ARCHIVES IN JANUARY
OF NINETEEN FIFTY FIVE THERE
WAS A PERMIT ISSUED TO MOVE A
SINGLE FAMILY DWELLING FROM
FOUR TWENTY SIX EAST WASHINGTON
TWO TO TWENTY SIX POINT EVISTA
AND THIS IS SO COOL BECAUSE
MOST OF THIS INFORMATION NONE
OF THIS INFORMATION THAT I'M
LOOKING AT EXCEPT THE MAPS WAS
AVAILABLE WHEN I STARTED HERE
SEVENTEEN YEARS AGO AND THESE
BUILDING PERMITS HAD ONLY BEEN
DIGITIZED FOR A COUPLE OF YEARS
AND AERIAL PHOTOS HAVE ONLY
BEEN AVAILABLE FOR ABOUT TEN
YEARS.
SO YOU CAN PUT TOGETHER THIS
WHOLE INTERESTING STORY.
THIS IS THE HOUSE RIGHT HERE AT
FOUR TWENTY SIX EAST WASHINGTON
.
UM, RIGHT NOW THERE IS A
CRUMMIER APARTMENT BUILDING I
SHOULDN'T SAY THAT THERE'S A
SMALL APARTMENT BUILDING.
IT'S ACROSS THE STREET FROM THE
VARSITY WHICH IS ONE OF THE BIG
NEW TAKES UP THE WHOLE CORNER
APARTMENT BUILDINGS.
BUT AT THIS TIME HERE'S THE
LITTLE HOUSE.
THE ONE THING THAT'S SURPRISING
ABOUT THIS IS THAT HERE THIS
REALLY LOOKS LIKE IT HAS A
GABLE DORMER AND THE HOUSE NOW
HAS A SHED DORMER BUT IT'S NOT
IMPOSSIBLE THAT THEY SWITCH
THAT YOU KNOW, THERE ARE ALSO
BUILDING PERMITS FROM NINETEEN
FIFTY FOUR TO POUR A NEW
FOUNDATION TO DO ONE OF THIS
STUFF FOR THIS TO BE MOVED ONTO
AND IF YOU LOOK AT THE PHOTOS
IN A MINUTE IT'S A MODERN CMU
FOUNDATION.
THERE'S NOTHING OLD NOTHING
ABOUT IT AND THIS WAS AN AUTO
DEALERSHIP OVER HERE WITH AUTO
REPAIR THIS I FOUND A REALLY
COOL PICTURE OF IT'S A
RESTAURANT BUT TO TRY TO SAVE
TIME.
SO NOW BECAUSE THIS WAS MOVED
IT'S NO LONGER A CONTRIBUTING
STRUCTURE IN THE DISTRICT.
I DID DOUBLE CHECK THE NATIONAL
REGISTER CRITERIA AND CERTAIN
KINDS OF PROPERTIES ARE NOT
USUALLY CONSIDERED FOR LISTING
IN THE NATIONAL REGISTER
INCLUDING MOVED PROPERTIES THE
NATIONAL REGISTER INFORMATION
QUALIFICATIONS HAVE
CONSIDERATIONS FOR ALL OF THOSE
THINGS THAT ARE LISTED HERE.
THEY HAVE A SEPARATE SORT
OF WELL EXCEPT UNDER THESE
CIRCUMSTANCES IT MIGHT BE A
CONTRIBUTING STRUCTURE SO IF
YOU LOOK UP FEDERAL CRITERIA
CONSIDERATIONS BE IT SAYS
ELIGIBILITY FOR HISTORIC
ASSOCIATIONS A MOVE PROPERTY
MUST BE DEMONSTRATED TO BE THE
SURVIVING PROPERTY MOST
IMPORTANTLY ASSOCIATED WITH
PARTICULAR HISTORIC EVENT OR AN
IMPORTANT ASPECT OF A HISTORIC
PERSON'S LIFE.
THERE WAS NEITHER AN EVENT NOR
A PERSON ASSOCIATED WITH THIS
PROPERTY THAT WE KNOW OF .
SO THE INTEGRITY OF THE
ARCHITECTURE IS RUINED WHEN YOU
MOVE IT.
BUT IF THERE WAS AN EVENT OR A
PERSON ATTACHED TO THAT HOUSE
THAT STAYS YES AS AN INTEGRAL
WHEN EVEN WHEN YOU MOVE THEN
THERE IS ALSO LANGUAGE THAT IS
EXCEPTIONS TO THESE EXCEPTIONS
AND THAT HAS A LITTLE BIT
OF LANGUAGE ABOUT ARCHITECTURE.
OK, BUT SINCE THIS IS A LOVELY
BUT NOT ARCHITECTURALLY
SIGNIFICANT HOUSE, I DIDN'T
BOTHER TO COPY THAT FOR YOU.
SO LET'S WALK AROUND AND LOOK
AT THE HOUSE AND TALK ABOUT THE
WORK THAT THEY WANT TO DO
KEEPING IN MIND THAT THIS IS A
NONCONTRIBUTING STRUCTURE SO
THE FIRST ITEM IS TO REMOVE
THIS WINDOW WHICH HAS WEIGHTS
AND PULLEYS BUT THAT'S NO
LONGER IMPORTANT INFORMATION
AND PUT IN RECESSED STUCCO IN
THE OPENING.
IT'S ALSO PROPOSED TO HAVE A
LITTLE TRIM FRAME REAPPLIED TO
MATCH WHAT'S HERE TO
MEMORIALIZE THAT A WINDOW USED
TO BE THERE WALKING AROUND THE
BACK OF THE HOUSE HERE IS A
PORCH THAT I COULDN'T REALLY
QUITE FIGURE OUT YOU COULD SEE.
HERE'S THE NEW FOUNDATION SCOTT
MODERN GLASS WINDOWS MODERN
NINETEEN FIFTY FIVE BUT THE
PORCH LOOKS A LITTLE TACKED ON
AND SINCE THE HOUSE WAS MOVED
THAT EXPLAINS THAT A LITTLE
BIT
BETTER.
THEY WOULD REMOVE THE PORCH PUT
OUT A LARGER PORCH SHIFTED TO
THE LEFT UNTIL THIS DOOR PUT A
PAIR OF DOUBLE HANDS RIGHT
HERE.
THIS ALL THE DRAWINGS IN A
SECOND AND PUT A PAIR OF FRENCH
DOORS OVER THERE THIS MORNING
WINDOW IS CURRENTLY DONE IN THE
UPSTAIRS.
THE LAST BIT OF WORK IS TO
REPLACE THIS WINDOW WITH
SLIGHTLY LARGER OPENING WITH
ANOTHER AWNING WINDOW.
SORRY, ONE MORE THING.
THIS SIDE DOOR WHICH IS HERE
BEHIND US GRASS IS ALSO
PROPOSED TO BE REPLACED WITH A
SIMILAR WOOD THREE PANEL DOOR.
YOU CAN SEE THAT THE THRESHOLD
HERE IS IS HAS SIGNIFICANT ROT
AND THERE'S DETERIORATION
OF THE WOODEN DOOR ALSO JUST A
COUPLE OF PHOTOS OF THE WINDOWS
,THE PORCH STRUCTURE.
IT'S KIND OF INTERESTING TO
KNOW WHEN THIS POINT IS FROM
BECAUSE IT'LL HELP ME WHEN I'M
LOOKING AT OTHER PORCHES.
YOU KNOW, IT LOOKS BUT IT
DOESN'T LOOK REALLY OLD AND THE
PORCH IS JUST SO SO I JUST WENT
THROUGH THAT WORK AND HERE WE
HAVE THE FOUR EXISTING
ELEVATIONS.
MOST IMPORTANTLY IS THE REAR
PORCH HERE DEMO PLAN IS TO
REMOVE THAT BACK PORCH AND THAT
BACK DOOR THAT WINDOW SIDE
WINDOW INSIDE DOOR REPLACE THEM
WITH AN EIGHT BY TWELVE PORCH
ON THE BACK WHICH IS THE
EASIEST WAY TO LOOK AT THAT.
IT WOULD HAVE COMPOSITE TRACKS
DECKING.
WE LOOK AT THAT IS TO GET UP TO
THE ELEVATION DRAWINGS.
OK, HERE'S THE NORTH ELEVATION
AWAY THE DRIVEWAY.
THIS IS WHERE YOU KNOW IT'S
SHOWING UP AS A GABLE BUT NOW
IT'S A SHED THOUGH IT IS
SLIGHTLY UNUSUAL FOR A SHED
DORMER TO HAVE THE RETURNS COME
OUT IN FRONT OF IT SO I DON'T
KNOW IF THAT MIGHT BE A CLUE TO
NEW SKYLIGHTS I PROPOSED ON THE
ROOF.
HERE'S A SLIGHTLY LARGER REAR
WINDOW AND HERE'S THE NEW PORCH
WITH NEW DOORS AND NEW WINDOWS
ON THE BACK NEW SIDE DOOR NEW
NEW SKYLIGHTS RECESSED IN A
FILLED WINDOW REALLY AS A
NONCONTRIBUTING STRUCTURE THIS
WORK IS ALL APPROPRIATE BUT I'M
A LITTLE BIT SAD ABOUT THIS
BACK DOOR BECAUSE IT'S A COOL
BACK DOOR.
IT'S GOT THIS NEAT BE TRIM
BELOW THE MOLDING OF BUT SAY
LOVELY.
HOPEFULLY WE'LL FIND A SECOND
LIFE SOMEWHERE ELSE FROM THE
SECOND TO YOUR STANDARDS.
I'VE ALREADY READ TO YOU NUMBER
NINE FROM THE GUIDELINES FOR
BUILDING SITE.
LET'S SEE SO THESE ARE
DIFFERENT STANDARDS AND
GUIDELINES THAT I HAD IN THE
PACKET SO SO THEY ARE NOT
RECOMMENDED AS INTRODUCING NEW
CONSTRUCTION WHICH IS VISUALLY
INCOMPATIBLE IN TERMS OF SIZE
SCALE DESIGN MATERIALS TEXTURE
WHICH DESTROYS HISTORIC
RELATIONSHIPS ON THE SITE FROM
DISTRICT OR NEIGHBORHOOD
SETTING.
IT'S NOT RECOMMENDED TO
INTRODUCE NEW CONSTRUCTION THAT
IS VISUALLY INCOMPATIBLE OR
THAT DESTROYS HISTORIC
RELATIONSHIPS FOR ALL NEW
CONSTRUCTION FROM THE ANN ARBOR
HISTORIC DISTRICT DESIGN
GUIDELINES, IT'S NOT
APPROPRIATE TO INTRODUCE A NEW
FEATURE THAT IS VISUALLY
INCOMPATIBLE OR THAT DESTROYS
THE PATTERNS OF THE SITE OR THE
DISTRICT AND FOUR ENTRANCES OR
APPROACHES TO DESIGN AND
INSTALL ADDITIONAL ENTRANCES OR
PORCHES WHEN REQUIRED.
THE NEW USE IN A MANNER THAT
PRESERVES THE HISTORIC
CHARACTER OF THE BUILDING'S.
LET'S SEE NOT RECOMMENDED
CUTTING NEW ENTRANCES ON A
PRIMARY ELEVATION APPROPRIATE
IS INSTALLING A NEW PORCH AN
ENTRANCE ON A SECONDARY
ELEVATION WHICH MAY BE
APPROPRIATE IF IT DOES NOT
DIMINISH THE CHARACTER AND THE
DESIGN MATERIALS ARE COMPATIBLE
WITH THE BUILDING AND THE SITE.
WE'RE MOSTLY WORRIED ABOUT THE
SITE HERE.
WE'RE WORRIED ABOUT THE
NEIGHBORS HOUSES AND THIS WORK
IS GOING TO BE COMPATIBLE WITH
THE DISTRICT.
THERE'S LANGUAGE ON RESIDENTIAL
DOORS AND IT'S APPROPRIATE TO
REPLACE THEM WITH SIMILAR DOORS
THAT IT'S YOU SHOULD REPLACE
THE ORIGINAL DOORS THAT ARE
DETERIORATED BEYOND REPAIR AND
THE WINDOW DESIGN GUIDELINES
DON'T REALLY APPLY SO MUCH NOW
SINCE WE'RE NOT WORRIED ABOUT
THE HISTORIC CHARACTER OF THE
PROPERTY.
IT'S SO IT'S VERY STRANGE TO BE
TALKING ABOUT A HOUSE BUILT AT
THE RIGHT TIME BUT SOMEWHERE
ELSE THAT NO LONGER HAS
HISTORIC INTEGRITY PER SAY SO
STAFF DOES RECOMMEND APPROVAL
OF THIS APPLICATION AS PROPOSED
BECAUSE I THINK IT NEEDS THE
DESIGN GUIDELINES AND STANDARDS
FOR NONCONTRIBUTING STRUCTURES.
THANK YOU.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
DESPATCHER MYSELF AND
COMMISSIONER ALL AROUND THE
REVIEW COMMITTEE WILL GIVE YOUR
REPORT WAS SURE THE SIDEBAR IS
A BIT RUNDOWN JUST WALKING TO
IT.
THERE'S A LOT OF DAMAGE IN
PARTS OF THE BOTTOM WHERE
PEELING OFF COULD BE PICKED UP
WALKING TO THE BACK THE PORCH
ITSELF WAS ALSO KIND OF RUN
DOWN THE BOTTOM PARTS.
ANYTHING ELSE?
UNFORTUNATELY WE WEREN'T ABLE
TO GO UP TO THE BACK DOOR AS
THE PRESIDENT WAS OUT THERE AT
THE MOMENT.
SO CAME KIMATHI CONFIDENT ABOUT
ME ABOUT THAT IN ITS CONDITION
.
I THAT'S ABOUT IT AND MY
MICROPHONE IS OK.
SO MY REPORT LET'S SEE THE THE
NEIGHBORHOOD WAS VERY FRIENDLY
I GUESS JUST TO BACK UP FOR A
SECOND WE HAD THE OWNER WASN'T
THERE AND WE HAD SEVERAL
NEIGHBORS PEEKING OVER THE
FENCE LIKE WHAT ARE YOU GUYS
DOING?
AND AND JILL WAS YOU KNOW,
LETTING EVERYONE KNOW WHAT WE
WERE UP TO BUT IT WAS LIKE
REALLY EYES ON THE STREET BUENA
VISTA WE WERE REALLY IMPRESSED.
THIS IS OPEN YOUR SLOSSON VERY
CLOSE JUST LOST HAPPENED THIS
ONE.
YEAH.
SO THAT WAS GREAT.
YEAH IT WHEN YOU'RE IN THE
BACKYARD YOU FEEL VERY SECLUDED
.
IT'S A SMALL BACKYARD BUT
THERE'S A VERY HIGH FENCE AND
THERE'S A LOT OF THERE'S A LOT
OF FOLIAGE AND SO IN TERMS
OF LIKE IMPACTING THE NEIGHBORS
IT'S REALLY GOING TO HAVE A
VERY MINOR IMPACT AND THE ONE
NEIGHBOR HAD A QUITE A BIG BUMP
OUT LIKE A KIND OF A LOWER WING
IN THE BACK OF THEIR HOUSE AND
I THINK THE OTHER NEIGHBOR HAD
LIKE A MINOR ONE TOO.
SO HAVING AN OPEN PORCH IT'S
REALLY JUST GOING TO BLEND IN
WITH THE NEIGHBORS AND YOU
KNOW, I WOULD TALK ABOUT THE
HISTORIC MATERIALS BUT SINCE
THIS IS A NONCONTRIBUTING
STRUCTURE AT THIS POINT AND
I'LL JUST I'LL SAVE THOSE
COMMENTS AND WE'LL MOVE ON.
I HAVE ONE THING ABSOLUTELY.
SO WHEN PROPOSING A MOTION WITH
SOMEONE, PLEASE BE SURE TO
STATE THAT THIS IS A
NONCONTRIBUTING PROPERTY IN THE
OLD WEST SIDE BECAUSE THAT WILL
MAKE IT OFFICIAL IF IT'S IF YOU
PASS THE MOTION AND JUST YOU'LL
HAVE TO FINESSE THIS A LITTLE
TO JUST YOU COULD EVEN JUST SAY
ALL THE WORK AS PROPOSED IF YOU
DON'T WANT TO BE TOO SPECIFIC
OR YOU CAN COMBINE THE TWO
PROPOSED MOTIONS THAT I HAD
HERE OR YOU CAN PROPOSE
WHATEVER YOU LIKE AS ALWAYS.
OK, WHOEVER JUST REAL THINK
REAL HARD IF YOU WANT TO BE THE
ONE THAT'S OK.
SO THAT'S THE REVIEW COMMITTEE
REPORT NOW WE'LL GO TO THE TO
THE APPLICANT PLEASE IF IF
YOU'RE HERE OR YOU ARE HERE
PLEASE PULL UP THEIR NAME
ADDRESS FOR THE RECORD YOU'VE
GOT FIVE MINUTES AND JUST LET
US KNOW IF YOU HAVE ANYTHING TO
ADD TO SHIPHERD SO FAR MY NAME
IS JASON AND I'M THE ARCHITECT
ON THE PROJECT MADRAS'S
THIRTEEN FORTY SIX RAVENSWOOD
AVENUE IN ANN ARBOR.
I DON'T HAVE A WHOLE LOT TO ADD
.
YOU KNOW IT WAS AN INTERESTING
FIND THAT JOEL INFORMED ME
OF THIS AFTERNOON AS FAR AS
REMOVING THE WINDOW THE IDEA OR
INTENT WHEN WE STILL THOUGHT IT
WAS A CONTRIBUTING IS TO
MEMORIALIZE THE WINDOW SO THAT
IF SOME FUTURE RESIDENT WANTED
TO PUT THAT WINDOW BACK AT SOME
POINT THEY COULD AND THEY KNEW
WHERE IT WAS.
YOU KNOW, THE WHOLE PROJECT
THAT INTERESTINGLY ENOUGH THE
OCCUPANT IS A HISTORY TEACHER
AT THE UNIVERSITY AND SO HE
LOVES LIVING IN THESE HISTORIC
HOMES BUT THEY OBVIOUSLY HAVE
THEIR DRAWBACKS IN TERMS
OF MODERN DAY LIFE.
THE THE IDEA BEHIND THE PROJECT
IS BRINGING THE KITCHEN INTO
CURRENT MODERN STANDARDS,
BRINGING THE BATHROOM WHICH IS
THE UPSTAIRS WINDOW INTO
CURRENT MODERN STANDARDS BUT
STILL TRYING TO KEEP THE
CHARACTER OF THE HOUSE OVERALL.
OBVIOUSLY THE DOOR NEEDS TO BE
REPLACED.
THE PORCH IS FALLING APART AT
THE END THE END GRAIN OF THE
DECKING SO THAT NEEDS TO BE
REPLACED.
BUT ALONG WITH THAT MAKING
STRUCTURE MUCH MORE LIVABLE IN
MODERN DAY MODERN DAY LIFE.
SO THE IDEA INTENT IS TO TRY
AND BRING IT INTO MODERN DAY
LIFE BUT STILL MAINTAIN THE
CHARACTER OF THE STRUCTURE AND
THAT WAS WHAT WE WERE TRYING TO
DO.
OK, WELL THANK YOU.
ANY QUESTIONS FOR THE APPLICANT
?
OK, WE'RE GOING DO THE PUBLIC
HEARING THEN SO
I WILL OPEN THE
PUBLIC HEARING FOR THIS ITEM.
THIS IS AN OPPORTUNITY FOR
PERSONS TO SPEAK FOR UP TO
THREE MINUTES ABOUT THIS
APPLICATION AT TWO TO TWENTY
SIX POINT EVISTA.
DO YOU HAVE ANY ONE ON THE LINE
NOW?
OK, THERE'S NO ONE HERE AS
WELL.
SO I WILL NOW CLOSE THE PUBLIC
HEARING AND OK, SO YOU CAN
PROBABLY SIT NOW AND THEN WE
MIGHT BRING YOU BACK UP IN A
SEC BUT FOR NOW WE'RE GOOD.
SO WOULD ANY COMMISSIONER LIKE
TO MAKE A MOTION ON THIS
APPLICATION?
COMMISSIONER, I THANK YOU SO
MUCH.
OK, I MOVE THAT THE COMMISSION
ISSUE A CERTIFICATE
OF APPROPRIATENESS FOR THE
PORTION OF THE APPLICATION AT
TWO TWENTY SIX POINT OF THIS TO
STREET AND NONCONTRIBUTING
PROPERTY IN THE OLD WEST SIDE
HISTORIC DISTRICT TO REMOVE A
WINDOW ON THE S ELEVATION
OF THE HOUSE AS PROPOSED BY AND
TO DEMOLISH AND REPLACE THE
REAR PORCH ALTRURIA WINDOW
ALTOR REAR DOOR AND WINDOWS
REPLACE THE SOUTH SIDE DOOR AND
ADD TWO SKYLIGHTS.
THIS PROPOSED WORK IS
COMPATIBLE AN EXTERIOR DESIGN
ARRANGEMENT TEXTURE MATERIAL IN
RELATIONSHIP TO THE REST OF THE
BUILDING IN THE SURROUNDING
AREA AND NEEDS THE SECRETARY
OF THE INTERIOR STANDARDS FOR
REHABILITATION AND GUIDELINES
FOR REHABILITATING HISTORIC
BUILDINGS IN PARTICULAR
STANDARDS TWO FIVE, NINE AND
TEN AND THE GUIDELINES FOR
WINDOWS AND ENTRIES AND PORCHES
AS WELL AS THE ANN ARBOR
HISTORIC DISTRICT DESIGN
GUIDELINES PARTICULARLY AS THEY
PERTAIN TO WINDOWS AND
RESIDENTIAL PORCHES.
DO I HAVE A SECOND THAT MOTION
SAID THAT WAS MOVED BY
COMMISSIONER FORTNER AND
SECONDED BY COMMISSIONER
CALDERON.
NOW JUST TIN CAN YOU LET US
KNOW WHAT WAS IN THAT MOTION
WAS A COMBINED COMBINED THE TWO
INTO ONE?
YES.
ALTHOUGH I GUESS I HAVE A
QUESTION ABOUT WHETHER
I MEAN
WE'RE MEETING THE STANDARDS BY
APPLYING THE NON CONTRIBUTING
AND ALSO YEAH, I THINK YOU'RE
OK.
OK, IF YOU WERE DENYING IT I
WOULD MAKE YOU FIX IT ALL.
BUT I DID YOU.
WELL WE HAVE VOTED YET.
DID YOU AND YOU SAID
NONCONTRIBUTING I WAS LISTENING
.
OK OK SO NOW WE'RE GOING TO
HAVE SOME DISCUSSION ON THE
MOTION.
SO WHO WOULD LIKE TO START.
DOES ANYONE HAVE ANY DISCUSSION
ITEMS.
I WOULD LIKE TO KNOW IF DOES
ANYONE THINK THAT THIS
STRUCTURE IS CONTRIBUTING IN
FACT OR DO WE ALL AGREE THAT IT
IS NOT I MEAN IT WAS MOVED
FIFTY FIVE YEARS.
YES.
AND BASED ON THE EVIDENCE
SUPPLIED, YOU KNOW, IT'S SORT
OF FAKE HISTORY, ISN'T IT?
AND WASN'T THERE DURING THE
PERIOD OF SIGNIFICANCE.
RIGHT.
YEAH.
THE OTHER CONTRIBUTING
STRACHANS THERE TRIVENI FOR A
REASON AND THE DESCRIPTION THIS
PROPERTY AND THE STRUCTURE
WOULD NOT NECESSARILY BE RIGHT.
IT SEEMS CLEAR FROM THE
STANDARDS WE FOLLOW THAT IF YOU
DO THIS TO A BUILDING EVEN
THOUGH IT'S A IT WAS BUILT AT A
CERTAIN TIME PERIOD, EVEN IF IT
WAS BUILT WITHIN YOUR OWN
HISTORIC DISTRICT, IF YOU MOVE
IT TO THE INTEGRITIES LOST OK,
SO THEN THAT SORT OF MAKES
EVERYTHING MUCH EASIER I WOULD
SUPPOSE WE PROBABLY WOULD HAVE
SOME PRETTY GOOD DISCUSSION
OTHERWISE BECAUSE OF WHAT IS
BEING ASKED.
OK, SO I WILL SAY THAT I
APPRECIATE A AN OWNER OF ANY
OF THESE HOUSES THAT WE LOOK AT
DOING A RENOVATION AND NOT NOT
ADDING ON ANY SQUARE FOOTAGE AT
ALL.
I REALLY THINK THAT THAT IS
COMMENDABLE.
SO I'D LIKE TO SAY THAT AND
THEN I DON'T HAVE ANY OTHER
COMMENTS BECAUSE THIS IS
INACCURATE STRUCTURE AND I
THINK WHAT WE'RE SEEING IS SO
MINIMAL THAT REALLY WE'D BE
COMMENTING ON THE SITE.
RIGHT.
AND WE'VE KIND OF HEARD LIKE
OK, THIS SITE IS IS VERY
COMPATIBLE WITH THE SITE WITH
WHAT'S GOING ON ON EITHER SIDE
OF IT AND EVERYTHING.
SO EXCUSE ME, ANY OTHER
COMMENTS MAYBE THIS IS WHAT YOU
WERE ALSO SPEAKING TO ABOUT THE
FACT BUT JUST THE OBSERVATION
YOU PROVIDED US WITH ITS
NEIGHBORS AND THAT IT IS A
FEATURE OF THE DISTRICT THAT
THESE PROJECTIONS ON THE REAR
PORCH OR SOME OTHER VOLUME IS
CHARACTERISTIC OF THE DISTRICT
.
SO THIS IS BEING COMPATIBLE
APPROPRIATE.
SO THAT HELPS AS WELL.
AGREED.
SHALL WE GO TO A VOTE?
OK, ALL THOSE IN FAVOR OF THE
MOTION PLEASE SAY YES.
YES, ALL THOSE OPPOSED PLEASE
SAY NO ON THE MOTION CARRIED
YOUR APPLICATION HAS BEEN
APPROVED.
PLEASE GET YOUR CITY PERMITS.
THANK YOU.
THANK YOU JASON.
OK WE WILL MOVE ON AT FOUR 311
EAST LIBBARD THIS TWO STORY DAN
WAS BUILT CIRCA 1890 AND MOVED
TO THIS SITE IN NINETEEN SEVEN
WHICH IS DURING THE PERIOD
OF SIGNIFICANCE.
SO IT IS A CONTRIBUTING
STRUCTURE FEATURES A CUT STONE
FOUNDATION MULTIPLE GABLES AT
LEAST FOUR WINDOWS THAT HAVE
COLORFUL GLASS EDGING IN THE
UPPER SASH, THE SIDING IN THE
FRONT HALF THE GRAY HALF IN
THIS PHOTO IS WOOD IN THE BACK
HALF OF THE BUILDING IS VINYL
THE FAN DETAIL AND ONE OF THE
FRONT GABLE'S.
I DON'T THINK I HAVE A GOOD
PICTURE OF IT IS NOT HISTORIC
THOUGH IT IS COVERING UP A
HISTORIC FAN DETAIL WHICH IS
JUST SAID VERTICAL SLAB
SCREENING WRAPPED THE FRONT
OF THE BUILDING IN THE NINETEEN
SEVENTIES AND IF YOU LOOK IN
THE STAFF REPORT THERE'S A
PHOTO OF THAT.
IT'S QUITE AN INTERESTING LOOK
MODERN ALTERATIONS TO THE
STOREFRONT THAT ARE PRESENT
TODAY OCCURRED IN NINETEEN
EIGHTY SEVEN NAMELY THE FRONT
WAS EXTRUDED OUT.
SO THIS THIS PORTION HERE IS
NEW THE SITE IS LOCATED ON THE
NORTH SIDE OF EAST LIBERTY
BETWEEN SOUTH FIFTH AVENUE AND
SOUTH DIVISION AND THE
APPLICANT IS SEEKING HGC
APPROVAL TO INSTALL A BARRIER
FREE RAMP ALONG THE EAST SIDE
THIS SIDE OF THE BUILDING AND
INSTALL A NEW DOOR IN A
HISTORIC LOCATION FOR THAT RAMP
TO TERMINATE AT
THIS IS THE
FORMER HOME ON THE FIRST FLOOR
OF THE BEED GALLERY WHICH HAS
BEEN CLOSED FOR A LITTLE WHILE.
THE OWNERS ARE ATTEMPTING TO
ALLOW A COFFEE SHOP TO MOVE IN
AND THEY ARE REQUIRED BY STATE
LAW TO PROVIDE A BARRIER FREE
ENTRANCE.
THEY THERE ARE OLD RECORDS
OF THE BUILDING BOARD
OF APPEALS AND THE STATE BOARD
OF APPEALS FOR PROVIDING THIS
ACCESS.
THEY ARE THE LONG AND SHORT
OF IT IS BY LAW THEY NEED TO
PROVIDE EITHER A RAMP OR A LIFT
TO GET INTO THE BUILDING.
THE THE RAMP IS PROPOSED TO GO
ALONG THE SIDE HERE STARTING
RIGHT ABOUT HERE AT THE CORNER
OF THIS DISPLAY WINDOW AND IT
WOULD GO STRAIGHT TO THE BACK
JUST BEYOND THE BUMP THAT I'LL
SHOW YOU IN A SEC.
ORIGINALLY ABOUT A MONTH TO AGO
THE PROJECT ARCHITECT KARL
HUETER PROPOSED A DIFFERENT
RAMP THAT WOULD START OVER HERE
SOMEWHERE AND IT WOULD WRAP
AROUND THE BUILDING AND THEN GO
ALL THE WAY AROUND AND THERE
WOULD BE AN ENTRANCE AT THE
BACK DOOR.
UNFORTUNATELY I GAVE HIM A
STAFF APPROVAL FOR IT BECAUSE
IT WAS BEHIND THE BUILDING AND
THERE ARE CERTAIN THINGS THAT I
CAN DO A BARRIER FREE RAMPS SO
STAFF BUT IT DIDN'T MEET
BUILDING CODE REQUIREMENTS SO
THEY HAD TO GO BACK TO THE
DRAWING BOARD THIS IS A DOOR TO
A THIRD FLOOR APARTMENT.
THAT'S THE ONLY THING IT LEADS
TO.
SO NOW THE PROPOSAL IS TO PUT A
METAL RAMP HERE ALONGSIDE THE
SIDE OF THE HOUSE.
THERE REALLY THE CUT STONE
FOUNDATION IS DEFINITELY A
CHARACTER DEFINING FEATURE
OF THE HOUSE UP HERE THERE'S A
SASH WITH SOME LEADED GLASS IN
IT WAS A WINDOW HERE IN THIS
BUMP OUT BUT IT'S NOT A
HISTORIC WINDOW BUT BENEATH
THAT WINDOW IT'S IT'S JUST A
WALL.
SO THE GOOD THING ABOUT THIS
APPLICATION IS AT LEAST THEY'RE
THEY'RE NOT OBSCURE ANY MORE
THAN JUST THE THE THE CUT STONE
FOUNDATION IN TERMS
OF CHARACTER DEFINING FEATURES
OF THE HOUSE THIS THIS LITTLE
WINDOW IT'S JUST THAT'S THE
ONLY ONE ON THIS SIDE AND IT'S
NOT THIS WINDOW BUT JUST TO THE
RIGHT OF IT YOU CAN'T SEE IT IN
THIS PHOTO.
SO HERE'S A SITE PLAN.
THIS IS THE THIS IS THE FRONT
OF THE BUILDING.
THIS IS THAT THAT CORNER
DISPLAY WINDOW.
HERE'S THE RAMP.
IT GOES UP.
THERE'S A LANDING HERE WHICH IS
REQUIRED BY LAW AFTER A CERTAIN
RUN OFF RAMP AND IT GOES UP A
LITTLE MORE AND THEN THERE'S
ANOTHER LANDING.
SO THE PROPOSAL IS TO ADD A
DOOR RIGHT HERE JUST BEHIND
THIS BUMP.
IT'S NOT REALLY A BUMP OUT.
IT'S JUST ACROSS CABLE.
BUT FOR LACK OF A BETTER TERM
AND THE THE APPLICATION STATES
THAT THIS IS IN A HISTORIC
OPENING.
WE ARE PROVIDED WITH ANY
EVIDENCE OF THAT
WHICH IS
UNUSUAL AND UNFORTUNATELY THE
PROJECT ARCHITECT IS OFF THE
GRID RIGHT NOW AND IS HAS NOT
JOINED US CANNOT JOIN US FOR
THIS MEETING AND I DON'T SEE
ANY ONE FROM THE OWNER
REPRESENTING IT.
SO I DON'T THINK WE CAN JUST
ASSUME THAT IT REALLY WAS A
HISTORIC OPENING BUT IT'S IT'S
NOT A BAD PLACE FOR A NEW
OPENING BECAUSE IT IS PRETTY
WELL HIDDEN BEHIND HERE.
YOU CAN SEE ALSO THAT THE
CURRENT STEPS THAT GO UP TO
THIS BACK DOOR WOULD BE SWUNG
AROUND SO THAT THEY WOULD BE
JUST A STRAIGHT SET OF STAIRS
DOWN TO THE DRIVEWAY WHICH IS
FULLY ON THE PROPERTY OF THE
HOUSE NEXT DOOR.
SO NONE OF THIS WORK IS IN THE
IS ON THE NEIGHBOR'S PROPERTY.
IT'S A LITTLE BIT OF A SHARED
DRIVEWAY AT THIS POINT BUT IT'S
NOW GOING TO BE JUST ON THE
NEIGHBOR'S PROPERTY.
SO HERE WE GO UP THE RAMP
LANDING UP THE RAMP IN THIS NEW
DOOR HERE AND HERE YOU CAN SEE
THESE STAIRS THAT HAVE SWUNG
AROUND AND THEY'VE GOT A NICE
NEW PLACE FOR THEIR TRASH CANS
TO BE STORED.
HERE IS A VIEW OF THE RAMP
ELEVATION'S AS SEEN FROM THE
SIDE OF THE HOUSE I GUESS.
AND HERE A DRAWING OF THIS
ELEVATION ON THE HOUSE WITH THE
WITH THE OPENINGS RUSHED IN SO
YOU CAN SEE HOW THEY RELATE TO
EACH OTHER.
THERE IS GARDEN RAIL ENCLOSURE
SCREENING THAT'S ALSO THE
MATERIAL IS NOT INDICATED
THOUGH IT LOOKS LIKE A VERTICAL
SLAB.
AND HERE'S A RAMP FROM THE
STREET AND THE FRONT ELEVATION
AND THIS IS AN EXAMPLE OF A
METAL RAMP.
THEY ARE THEY'RE NOT A THING
OF BEAUTY.
THEY'RE A THING OF FUNCTION
.
SO THE STANDARDS I'VE ALREADY
READ TO NO ONE IN NUMBER NINE
AND NUMBER TEN.
SO THE GUIDELINES FOR ENTRANCES
AND PORCHES RECOMMEND DESIGNING
AND INSTALLING ADDITIONAL
ENTRANCES OR PORCHES WHEN
REQUIRED FOR THE NEW USE IN A
MANNER THAT PRESERVES THE
HISTORIC CHARACTER OF THE
BUILDING LIMITING SUCH
ALTERATION OF NON CHARACTER
DEFINING ELEVATIONS FROM THE
BARRIER FREE ACCOMMODATION
SAFETY CODES AND ESCAPES PAGE
THE ANN ARBOR DESIGN
GUIDELINES.
IT'S APPROPRIATE WHEN REQUIRED
TO INSTALL BARRIER FREE ACCESS
RAMPS THAT DO NOT ALTER
CHARACTER DEFINING FEATURES
OF THE BUILDING KEEPING
HISTORIC BUILDING MATERIALS
INTACT AND THAT IF REMOVED IN
THE FUTURE KEEP THE HISTORIC
BUILDING INTACT.
SO THE THING THAT THIS RAMP HAS
GOING FOR IT IS THAT IT DOES
KEEP EVERYTHING INTACT AND IT'S
SUPER EASY TO REMOVE.
THERE WOULD BE A NEW DOORWAY.
BUT I DO THINK THAT EVEN IF
THAT DOORWAY WERE PROPOSED
WITHOUT A RAMP IT WOULD BE IN
AN APPROPRIATE SPOT ON A NON
CHARACTER DEFINING ELEVATION.
SO LET ME CHECK HERE AND SEE IF
I MISSED ANYTHING
.
I AM I'M SURE THAT THE IF YOU
HAD CONCERNS ABOUT THE
GUARDRAIL ENCLOSURE SCREENING
OR THE NEW DOOR SINCE WE DON'T
HAVE MATERIALS AND DESIGN
INFORMATION THAT WOULD BE A
SUPER EASY STAFF APPROVAL IF
YOU WANTED TO SHARE YOUR
THOUGHTS ON THAT WITH ME AND
FELT IT WAS APPROPRIATE IN
CONCEPT AND I COULD HELP THEM
FIGURE OUT HOW TO APPLY IT, I
DO BELIEVE THAT THE WORK IS
LACKING IN VISUAL INTEGRITY BUT
IT KEEPS HISTORIC MATERIALS
INTACT AND REALLY IT'S THIS OR
LIFT THE LIFT WOULD ALSO HAVE
TO GO BACK HERE IN THE BACK.
IT WOULD ALSO REQUIRE A NEW
OPENING IF IT WERE TO BE PUT
BACK HERE AND IT WOULD JUST BE
I DON'T IT WOULD BE A NEW
STRUCTURE BACK THERE
ESSENTIALLY AND I REALLY THINK
THAT THIS IS ALMOST LESS
INVASIVE BECAUSE IT'S SO EASY
TO REMOVE I DON'T KNOW THAT
THEY'LL EVER BE ALLOWED TO
REMOVE IT SINCE IT'S A
COMMERCIAL BUILDING BUT IT DOES
I BELIEVE MEET THE STANDARDS
GUIDELINES.
THANK YOU.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH
.
OK, SO MYSELF AND MR CALDERON,
WE'RE ON THE REVIEW COMMITTEE
SO WE'LL GIVE THE STAFF REPORT
NOW SO I'LL GO FIRST.
SO THIS THIS THERE'S THERE'S A
FEW OTHER LIKE TWO STORY
HISTORIC HOMES ON THIS LITTLE
STRETCH OF LIBERTY
.
IT SEEMS LIKE THERE'S MAYBE ONE
OR TWO ON THE SOUTH SIDE OF THE
STREET AND THEN SAME THING ON
THE NORTH SIDE AND SOME OF THEM
ARE BETTER KEPT UP THAN OTHERS
LIKE IT'S A LITTLE SAD BECAUSE
RIGHT AROUND DOWN DIVISION
THERE'S JUST SOME INCREDIBLE
EXAMPLES AND REALLY WELL KEPT
UP FOR SOME REASON THESE THESE
AREN'T BUT MAYBE THIS IS THE
START OF SOMETHING BECAUSE SOME
OF THEM ARE REALLY, YOU KNOW,
QUITE GREAT EXAMPLES.
THIS ONE, HOWEVER, BECAUSE
OF THE FRONT ADDITION IT REALLY
THAT YOU REALLY ARE LOOKING
HARD TO FIND CHARACTER DEFINING
FEATURES ON THIS PROPERTY LIKE
LIKE REALLY KIND OF BENDING AND
LOOKING SO IT ALMOST DOESN'T
MATTER BECAUSE THIS PROJECT IS
REALLY ABOUT SITE
COMPATIBILITY.
I FEEL LIKE BECAUSE IT'S ALL
JUST THIS RAMP.
SO EVEN IF IT WASN'T
CONTRIBUTING IT WOULD STILL BE
HOT.
DOES THIS RAMP LOOK WITH WITH
THE DISTRICT?
EXACTLY.
SO IT'S SORT OF BESIDE THE
POINT.
THE ALLEY IS KIND OF A DUSTY
ALLEY.
IT FEELS LIKE JUST WIDE ENOUGH
FOR A FOUR FOOT RAMP AND A TEN
FOOT DRIVE.
IT'S IT IT FEELS LIKE IT'LL FIT
BUT IT FEELS IT'S GOING TO IT'S
GOING TO JUST BARELY FIT AND I
THINK THAT IT'S JUST AN ALLEY
TO SOME PARKING SPOTS.
THERE'S LIKE MAYBE I DON'T KNOW
TEN PARKING SPOTS OR SOMETHING
TO HIDE.
IT'S NOT AN ALLEY THAT LIKE
CONNECTS TO STREETS TOGETHER.
IT'S A DRIVEWAY THIS THE
GARBAGE TRUCKS DON'T COME DOWN
THERE.
I DON'T KNOW IF GARBAGE TRUCKS
ARE THEY DON'T THEY PULL CARTS
OUT TO THE STREET?
THEY'RE SO SO THEN YEAH WE YOU
KNOW, I DIDN'T I ALSO DIDN'T
SEE ANY EVIDENCE OF OF AN
EXISTING OPENING BEING IN THAT
LITTLE SPACE THERE AND I FEEL
LIKE HOW COULD IT AN EXISTING
OPENING RIGHT THERE AND KIND
OF SMOOSHED RIGHT TO THE EDGE
OF OF WHERE THE THE GABLE
CROSSABLE RETURNS TO THE TO THE
WING LIKE IN THE PLANT IT MIGHT
MAYBE THERE WAS LIKE AN OPENING
NEAR THERE BUT ABOUT IT WOULD
BE KIND OF A MIRACLE IF IT WAS
RIGHT THERE.
BUT I AGREE WITH WHAT THE STAFF
SAID IT IT PROBABLY DOESN'T
MATTER BECAUSE IT'S A DECENT
SPOT FOR A DOOR ANYWAY IN TERMS
OF OTHER THINGS FROM THE SITE
THERE IS KIND OF SOME
INTERESTING YOU CAN REALLY SEE
A LOT OF THE FOUNDATION I GUESS
ON THE OTHER SIDE OF THE
BUILDING BECAUSE BECAUSE YOU
YOU CAN ACCESS THE BASEMENT
LEVEL WITH EXTERIOR STAIRS FROM
THAT SIDE.
SO THERE'S KIND OF SOME
INTERESTING OLD FOUNDATION WORK
ON THAT SIDE OF THE BUILDING.
YEAH, I THINK THAT'S IT.
CALDERON ANYTHING TO ADD?
SURE TO MUCH MORE THAN I AGREE
WITH STAFF GIVING WOMEN IN
SPACE OR IN ANY AREA.
IT'S A SHAME THAT IT WOULD BE
COMING TOUCHSTONE FOUNDATION
BUT IT WOULD BE NICE BUT OK,
THANK OK SO IS IT TRUE WE DO
NOT HAVE AN APPLICANT HERE?
WE DO NOT OK WHAT WOULD ANY
OF YOU BE INTERESTED IN SEEING
THE NINETEEN THIRTY ONE SANBA
IT'S ABSOLUTELY IT'S NOT IT'S
NOT IF YOU GOT IT LET'S SEE IT
IT'S NOT SUPER ENLIGHTENING BUT
IT DOES SHOW YOU THAT THIS IS
IT HERE THREE ELEVEN THE
INTERESTING PART IS THAT THERE
WAS A LITTLE PORCH THAT STUCK
OUT AND THIS LITTLE SQUARE
DISPLAY WINDOW THAT'S BEEN
THERE IN SOME FORM.
NO NO BECAUSE THAT'S THAT'S NOT
RIGHT.
COME ON.
THIRTY NINE I THINK.
WELL BECAUSE ISN'T THERE ISN'T
THIS SET THAT ISN'T IT BROUGHT
WAY FORWARD WITH THE ADDITION
OF THEN MAYBE THEY JUST YOU
KNOW BROUGHT IT OUT AND HERE
TOO I HAVE BEEN ASSUMING THERE
WAS WELL DON'T YOU THINK WHEN
IT WAS ORIGINALLY BUILT IT WAS
PROBABLY A TEN FOOT SET BACK
AND IF YOU LOOK AT IT NOW IT'S
RIGHT AT THE FRONT THE PROPERTY
LINE IT IS.
YEAH, YEAH YEAH YEAH.
AND SO THIS WAS THE BACK DOOR
THAT THEY WERE TRYING TO GO
AROUND TO BUT THERE WASN'T ROOM
THIS DOESN'T SHOW A DOOR HERE
AND ANY SORT A PORCH BUT OK AND
SOMEHOW THE PROPERTY LINE HAS
MOVED RIGHT WHERE THE PROPERTY
LINE THERE IS SHOWING
THAT THEY
COULDN'T BUILD A FOUR FOOT WELL
MAYBE ADJUST FOR OK MAYBE IT
HASN'T MOVED AND THAT'S JUST
FOUR FEET THAT WE'RE SEEING
THERE FROM LIKE THE YEAH YEAH
IT'S A LITTLE MORE THAN FOUR
FEET.
RIGHT.
OK, OK VERY GOOD.
YEAH OK THANK YOU.
OK SO WE WOULD ASK THE
APPLICANT TO JOIN US BUT WE
DON'T HAVE AN APPLICANT SO NOW
I HAD SOME QUESTIONS BUT I
GUESS WE'LL WE'LL GET TO ALL
THAT AT THE DISCUSSION AND SO
LET'S OPEN THE PUBLIC HEARING
FOR THIS ITEM.
THIS IS ITEM 311 EAST LIBERTY
FOR AND I'M WONDERING IF WE
HAVE ANYONE FOR PUBLIC COMMENT
NO ONE IS IN THE SAME ROOM, OK?
NO ONE'S APPROACHING HERE.
SEE PATTERN.
OK, SO I WILL CLOSE THE PUBLIC
AND I'M WONDERING COMMISSIONER
WOULD LIKE TO MAKE A MOTION ON
THIS APPLICATION.
COMMISSIONER CALDERAZZO, I NEED
YOU GIVE THE REASONS FOR THE
APPLICATION OF THREE ONE ONE
EAST LIBERTY STREET
INTERMEDIATE PROPERTY THE STATE
STREET HISTORIC DISTRICT
CONSTRUCTION NUMEROUSLY AND THE
ONE EAST SIDE OF THE BUILDING
AND INSTALLING DOOR NEW OPENING
HAS PROPOSED THE WORK AS
COMPATIBLE EXTERIOR DESIGN AND
TEXTURE MATERIAL IN
RELATIONSHIP TO THE REST OF THE
HOUSE IN THE SURROUNDING AREA
IN NEEDS THE SECRETARY
OF INTERIOR STANDARD AND
REHABILITATION GUIDELINES FOR
RELOCATION THE STORED BUILDINGS
IN PARTICULAR STANDARDS ONE
NINE TEN AND THE GUIDELINES FOR
THE ENTRANCES AND PORCHES AND
THE ANN ARBOR HISTORIC DISTRICT
DESIGN GUIDELINES FOR WE
OBLIGATIONS TO HAVE A SECOND
SECOND OK THAT WAS MOVED BY
COMMISSIONER CALDERON SECONDED
BY COMMISSIONER QUIJANO.
IS THERE ANY DISCUSSION ON THE
MOTION?
COULD I MAKE ONE MORE COMMENT?
ABSOLUTELY.
SHOULD HAVE INCLUDED THIS IN
STAFF COMMENTS BUT THERE IS A
LITTLE NARRATIVE IN THE
APPLICATION THAT STATES THAT
THE NEW LAW WOULD BE WOULD FALL
FIFTEEN PAIN FRENCH DOOR TO LET
A LOT OF LIGHT IN AND THE STEEL
RAMP WOULD BE EITHER POWDER
COATED OR GALVANIZED FOR
APPEARANCES LONGEVITY.
THE COLORWAY WILL BE A NEUTRAL
GRAYTON TO MINIMIZE THE VISUAL
IMPACT AND GALVANIZED METAL
AGES TO A SOFT GRAY TONE.
SO IF YOU HAD A STRONG FEELING
ABOUT WHETHER IT SHOULD BE
GALVANIZED OR POWDER COATED YOU
SHOULD SPEAK UP OTHERWISE IT
WILL BE SORT OF THEIR CHOICE IS
THAT SPEAKING OF PURVIEW IS CAN
WE SAY COLORS LIKE THAT WHEN IT
COMES TO SOMETHING LIKE THIS?
WELL NOT COLORS BUT I MEAN
POWDER PINK OR SOMETHING I
GUESS, RIGHT?
YEAH I LIKE BECAUSE POWDER CAN
GET YOU CAN DO A COLOR.
YEAH YEAH YEAH.
YOU STATE THAT IT'LL BE GRAY
EITHER WAY.
THAT'S NICE.
THEORETICALLY I KNEW ANYONE
COULD PAINT IT RIGHT.
YEAH YEP YEP.
OK WHAT ELSE SET IT OK SO I HAD
SOME QUESTIONS FOR THE
APPLICANT AND I THINK THAT MISS
THATCHER HIT THE RIGHT ON THE
HEAD WITH JUST WHAT ARE THOSE
SLACKS I JUST SAW A NOTE ON THE
WORKPLACE.
YEAH THAT CALLED OUT MECHANICAL
PANELS EVERYTHING.
MCNICHOLS IF YOU LOOK AT THE
ELEVATION EVERYTHING SAYS
MICHNIK MECHANICALS THAT MUST
BE THE MECHANICAL MAKES LIKE
METAL.
YEAH OK OK SHE PERFORATION YEAH
OK METAL ITEMS YEAH.
SO THAT'S WHAT I ASSUMED IT
WOULD BE BUT IT DOESN'T LOOK
LIKE METAL RIGHT IN THE
ELEVATOR AND THEN THE PHOTO THE
PHOTO IS SHOWING SOMETHING WITH
LIKE HORIZONTAL THAT'S JUST THE
BALUSTRADE.
YEAH AND THE ELEVATION THAT IS
DRAWN JUST SHOWS THE VERTICAL
THE HORIZONTAL RAILS IT DOESN'T
SHOW AND YOU'RE RIGHT VERTICALS
UNTIL YOU GO THE DRAWINGS
BECAUSE THE RIGHT THE PICTURE
WAS JUST SO THE PICTURE IS MORE
OF LIKE THE MATERIALITY RIGHT.
THE DRAWING IS THE GEOMETRY.
EXACTLY.
OK BUT THEN SO THAT THERE'S
STILL A QUESTION THOUGH OF WHAT
ARE THOSE SLATS GUARDRAIL
ENCLOSURE SCREAMING WHILE WE
THINK THAT I HAD A QUESTION FOR
STAFF.
YES.
SO YOU MENTIONED THE LIFT AND
I'M JUST CURIOUS IN THE HISTORY
OF THE PROJECT LIKE HAS THE HAS
THE OWNER REQUESTED FOR THE
LIFT AND AND LIKE SO SO HOW DID
WE GET TO RAMP VERSUS THE IF
THERE'S RAMP VERSUS LIFT HOW
ARE WE SHOWING RING THE OWNER
DESIRES THE RAMP.
YEAH I DON'T KNOW EXACTLY WHY I
DON'T KNOW IF IT'S EXPENSE OR
IF IT'S EASE OF USE BUT THAT
WHEN I SAID HEY WHY DON'T YOU
SHOW ME A LIFT I MAY BE ABLE TO
STAFF APPROVE IT.
THE OWNER SAID NO WE WOULD
REALLY LIKE A RAMP HERE.
DO YOU KNOW DO YOU HAVE TO PUT
IN A RAMP IF A RAMP WILL FIT
AND ONLY PUT IN A LIFT IF A
RAMP WON'T FIT OR IS IT JUST
THE RECOMMENDED OR IS THERE I
DON'T ENCOUNTERED THAT THE
BUILDING AREA THE BUILDING
OFFICIAL SAID THAT THEY COULD
DO EITHER ONE OF IN HIS CODE .
OK, NOW THAT APPLICATION THAT'S
THE FINAL AUTHORITY RIGHT
THERE.
YEAH.
JUST OUT OF CURIOSITY, HOW HAVE
TO OPERATE WITH A PERSON, DO
THEMSELVES OR SOMETHING, GO
INSIDE AND LIFT UP THE PERSON?
IT'S LIKE A FLAT PLATFORM.
YOU WOULD ROLL ONTO THE
PLATFORM AND THEN YOU HIT A
BUTTON.
THE PLATFORM LIFTS UP TO THE
LEVEL OF THE DOOR AND THEN YOU
ROLL OUT OF THAT.
NO ONE ELSE DOES YOURSELF
RIGHT.
GOT IT RIGHT.
MORE LIMITED YOU SEE ONE AT A
TIME.
YEAH.
I THINK THE RAMP IS USUALLY
PREFERRED OVER THE LIFT.
I KNOW WE HAD THAT CHURCH THAT
WAS THE OLD YEAH.
OR WHATEVER THAT THING.
YEAH YEAH.
AND THE RAMP WASN'T GOING TO
STAND OR WAS GOING TO FILL UP
LIKE THAT THAT ENTIRE COURTYARD
AND AND THERE WE WENT WITH A
LIFT ALTHOUGH HIGHLY VISIBLE A
VERY VISIBLE LIFT THAT WAS WE
WERE KIND OF FORCED INTO THAT
NOW WE'VE GOT A VERY VISIBLE
RAMP OR HEMMING AND HAWING OK
IT'S OK FOR THE RAMP TO BE SO
CLOSE TO THAT MOTORIZED VEHICLE
TRAFFIC.
I'M THINKING OF THE FIRST
APPLICATION TONIGHT WHERE THE
WINDOW HAD BEEN RUN OVER IN THE
DRIVEWAY.
I'M FAIRLY CONFIDENT THAT THE
PLAN REVIEWER WILL REQUIRE AT
LEAST ONE BOLLARD AT THE CORNER
THERE IS ONE IT'S NOT ON THE
ELEVATION BUT IN THE PLANS IN
THE PLANS THERE'S A BOLLARD IN
THE FRONT AND A BOLLARD IN THE
BACK.
OK, BUT YEAH YOU CAN JUST CRUSH
IT RIGHT IN THE MIDDLE AND IT'S
GOING TO GET HIT.
I THINK THERE WAS DISCUSSION
OF A WOODEN TABLE AND YEAH I
GUESS THERE YEAH.
SO A WOOD RAMP WOULD REALLY
YEAH.
THAT IT WOULDN'T LAST WOULDN'T
LAST VERY LONG BUT OK SO WE
HAVE THESE QUESTIONS AND THE
APPLICANT IS NOT HERE ARE ANY
OF THESE QUESTIONS LIKE GOING
TO HOLD US UP FROM REALLY
MOVING FORWARD ON THIS OR IS IT
LIKE I WOULD REALLY LIKE TO
KNOW WHAT THAT SCREENING IS BUT
WHAT IF HE SAYS IT'S WOOD OR IF
HE SAYS IT'S METAL?
I DON'T KNOW.
I JUST WANT TO KNOW WHAT IT IS.
BUT WHAT WOULD IT MAKE A
DIFFERENCE IN HOW I'M GOING TO
VOTE FOR THIS IS I GUESS THE
QUESTION ON THE TABLE BECAUSE
WELL YEAH.
YEAH, IT SEEMS LIKE THE
COMPATIBILITY TO THE
NEIGHBORHOOD IS REALLY WHAT IT
COMES DOWN TO.
YEAH.
AND IF WE DON'T REALLY KNOW
WHAT IT LOOKS LIKE YEAH.
WE SAY IT'S COMPACT IT'S HARD
TO LIKE JUST BECAUSE IT COMES
LIKE THERE'S SKIRTING RIGHTS SO
LIKE THE THE GUARD IS THE GUARD
AND THE SKIRT AT ONCE AND WE'RE
LOOKING AT IT STRAIGHT ON BUT
I'M TRYING TO PICTURE IT LIKE
KIND OF FROM THE SIDEWALK.
IT'S A LITTLE HARD TO IMAGINE
WHAT IT'S GOING TO LOOK LIKE
FROM THE FROM THE SIDEWALK.
YEAH.
SO I'M LOOKING AT THE MCNICHOLS
CATALOG AND THEY MAKE EVERY
KIND OF METAL THING LIKE A HOLE
IN A DECKING AND FLOORING AND
STRUCTURAL SHAPES AND THINGS.
IT LOOKS LIKE A HONEYCOMB AND
THINGS THAT LOOKS SORT OF LIKE
A FENCE AND YEAH, IF I COULD
MAKE A SUGGESTION YOU COULD
CONDITION THE MOTION ON STAFF
REVIEWING THE FENCE MATERIAL
WITH THE APPLICANT AND I'LL
JUST RUN IT BY THE OFFICERS.
YEAH.
AND SAY WHAT DO YOU THINK ABOUT
THIS AND IF YOU SAY NO I WANT
TO PROVE IT AND I'LL HAVE TO
MOVE ON TO A NEW MATERIAL.
OK, I THINK THAT THAT WOULD
HELP ME MOVE FORWARD APPROVING
THIS BECAUSE I JUST DON'T KNOW
WHAT IT IS LIKE.
WHY IS THIS SKIRTING THE SAME
MATERIAL AS THE GUARD AND I'M
SURE THAT KARL COULD EXPLAIN IT
IF HE WAS HERE.
YEAH, BUT HE'S NOT SO SO I LIKE
THAT IDEA OF GETTING THAT
EXPLANATION AND THEN REVIEWING
IT WITH THE OFFICERS.
I SEE A LOT OF NODDING HEADS.
SO WHAT WHAT ARE THE OTHER
QUESTIONS HERE?
THE DISCUSSION POINTS
WHAT
ABOUT THE DOOR?
DOES ANYONE HAVE AN ISSUE WITH
THAT DOOR WHETHER OR NOT IT'S
EXISTING JUST IS IT IN THE
RIGHT SPOT AND IS IT OK TO PUT
IN A NEW OPENING THERE?
YEAH, I'M OK WITH LOCATION IF I
ASSUME WHEN YOU'RE ON SITE THAT
BARELY VISIBLE SO TIGHT TWO
WELL IT'S PRETTY VISIBLE
BECAUSE IT'S A WELL ONE
DRIVEWAY HERE IN THE DRIVEWAY.
YES.
BUT FROM THE SHOW FROM THE
RIGHT OR LIKE WHEN YOU'RE
WALKING ON THE SIDE.
YEAH I GUESS IF I WAS LOOKING
OUT FOR YOU YOU DON'T SEE IT.
YEAH MAYBE MAYBE EVERYTHING'S
OPENING BUT WE DON'T KNOW IF
THERE'S ANY AT THIS POINT WE
ARE ASSUMING IT'S JUST A NEW
OPENING.
YEAH.
RATHER HISTORICAL ITS LOCATION
DID NOT I NOT CONCERN RIGHT OK
I SAY THAT
OK
ALL RIGHT SO IF
THERE'S NO OTHER COMMENTS WE'RE
GOING TO WE'RE GOING TO GO TO A
VOTE HERE.
ARE THERE ANY OTHER QUESTIONS.
OK SO WHAT DO WE HAVE TO CHANGE
THE MOTION.
THAT'S GREAT.
YEAH YEAH.
GOT A CONDITION THE MOTION SO
SO HOLLORAN YOU READ THE MOTION
CORRECT?
I DID YEAH.
SO WE WANT TO ADD SOME LANGUAGE
IN THERE THAT THE EMOTION IS
CONDITIONAL
ON THE MATERIAL
OF THE WHAT WE WANT TO CALL
THAT.
IT'S LIKE THE GUARD IN THE
SKIRT OF DESIGN AND MATERIAL.
YEAH.
YOU WANT CONFIRMATION THAT THE
GUARDS YEAH.
I MEAN WE'RE ASSUMING ONE THING
BUT THE GUY WELL NO I THINK
WHAT I WHAT IS WHAT IS DRAWN IS
WHAT IS THE YEAH YEAH YEAH.
SO I THINK THAT THAT'S PRETTY
CLEAR FROM WHAT STAFF HAS SAID
SO THAT'S NOT AN ISSUE BUT
DEFINITELY JUST WANT TO KNOW
THE THE MATERIAL OF THE OF THE
GUARD AND THE SKIRT AT THE AT
THE LANDING OR SOMETHING LIKE
THAT.
SO WOULD YOU LIKE TO SAY
SOMETHING LIKE AND INSTALL A
NEW DOOR IN A NEW OPENING ON
THE CONDITION THAT THE MATERIAL
AND DESIGN OF THE GUARD AND
SKIRT ARE APPROVED BY STAFF
PRIOR TO PERMITTING AS A
CONDITION THE WORK IS
COMPATIBLE WITH VERY BEST SORRY
DO WE NEED TO BE SECOND BETTER
WE REALLY GOOD BECAUSE NO ONE
NO ONE OBJECTED OKAY WITH THAT
EVERYONE'S GREAT OK I'M GOOD
WITH THAT.
GOOD GOOD OK
SO I DON'T THINK
ANYONE WHO WAS REALLY EXCITED
ABOUT SEEING THIS RAMP NEXT TO
THIS BUILDING BUT IT JUST SEEMS
LIKE IT'S BARRIER FREE DESIGN
WE NEED TO PROVIDE THESE
SERVICES SO IT'S BEEN DONE IN
KIND OF THE LEAST LIKE EYE
CATCHING WAY POSSIBLE OR
SOMETHING IN A WAY BECAUSE IT'S
JUST VERY SIMPLE.
THE MATERIALS WE'RE CONCERNED
ABOUT BUT THEY'RE AS DURABLE AS
THEY COULD PROBABLY BE.
SO LET'S JUST GO TO A VOTE HERE
.
ALL THOSE IN FAVOR SAY YES,
YES, YES.
ALL THOSE POSTS PLEASE SAY NO.
OK, SO THE MOTION CARRIES THE
APPLICATION HAS BEEN APPROVED.
THANK YOU.
ALL RIGHT.
WE'VE GOT ONE MORE HEARING AT
FIVE THAT IS 12 18 LEFT HERE ON
STATURE WHEN YOU'RE READY,
PLEASE GIVE THE STAFF REPORT.
ALL RIGHT.
ONE MOMENT PLEASE TAKE YOUR
TIME.
I GOT THIS ORGANIZED
.
OK, 12 EIGHTEEN W HERE ON
STREET.
IT'S IN THE OLD WEST SIDE
HISTORIC DISTRICT.
THIS IS A TWO STOREY QUEEN ANNE
AT FIRST APPEARS IN PARK CITY
DIRECTORIES IN 1894 AS THE
WAGGNER AT ONE TWENTY SIX WEST
HURON STREET ITS CONSTRUCTION
DATE MAYBE EARLIER IF YOU LOOK
AT IT IT'S A FAIRLY SYMMETRICAL
HOUSE THAT I THINK WAS PROBABLY
MUCH OLDER THAN THIS AND THEN
QUEEN AND POTENTIALLY WITH A
NEW FANCY PORCH SEE HOW
SYMMETRICAL THE WINDOWS ARE
THAT'S NOT A CHARACTERISTIC
TRADEMARK OF THE QUEEN ANNE
STYLE BUT SO I THINK THEY'VE
SORT OF DOLLED UP AS THEY DID
WITH MANY QUEEN AND AROUND THIS
TIME THE HOUSE IS A INTRUDING
RESOURCE IN THE OLD WEST SIDE
HISTORIC DISTRICT.
WE'RE HERE TODAY TO TALK ABOUT
A GARAGE WHICH HAS TWO BAYS
EACH WITH DOUBLE LEAF HINGE
DOORS.
THERE ARE SEVERAL SIX LIGHT
FIXED WINDOWS IN THE GARAGE,
ONE ON EACH GABLE AND THEN SOME
ON ONE OF THE SIDES.
THE SIDING WOULD DOUBLE LAP
WITH WOOD TRIM AND CORNER
BOARDS.
THE GARAGE THAT APPEARS ON
NINETEEN FORTY SEVEN AERIAL
PHOTOS MATCHES THE GARAGE SCENE
ON TWENTY TWENTY TWO AERIAL
PHOTOS AND I'VE GOT THAT
COMPARISON IN THE STAFF REPORT
IF YOU WANT TO SEE IT.
THE SITE IS LOCATED ON THE
NORTH SIDE OF WEST HERE ON
STREET WEST OF OUR AND SLIGHTLY
EAST OF THE TERMINUS OF CREST
AVENUE AND THE APPLICANT IS
SEEKING A NOTICE TO PROCEED TO
DEMOLISH A GARAGE ON THE SITE
AND NOT REPLACE IT.
THE GARAGE IS A CONTRIBUTING
STRUCTURE IN THE OLD WEST SIDE
HISTORIC DISTRICT SO WALKING
AROUND THE GARAGE HERE I
VISITED THE SITE TWICE AND THE
REVIEW COMMITTEE WAS THERE WITH
ME ON MONDAY.
YOU CAN SEE JUST BY LOOKING AT
IT THAT THINGS ARE A LITTLE BIT
ASKEW.
THE DOORS NEED SOME CARE BUT
THEY ARE ON THEIR HINGES AND
IT'S CERTAINLY A DESIGN THAT
LOOKS LIKE IT'S A PRE NINETEEN
FORTY FIVE.
THE SIDINGS KIND OF NEAT
BECAUSE IT'S VERY NARROW BUT IT
IS A DOUBLE LAP SO EACH BOARD
LOOKS LIKE TWO BOARDS.
I THINK WE RAN INTO THAT LAST
MONTH AS WELL AND THEN THERE'S
SOME FLAT BOARD TRIM IN THE EHV
THERE'S A CLOSE UP OF THE DOORS
WE'VE CERTAINLY SEEN WORSE THAN
THAT.
THE FRONT OF THE BUILDING LOOKS
BETTER THAN THE OTHER THREE
SIDES BECAUSE IT'S BEEN
RECENTLY MORE RECENTLY PAINTED
THAN THE OTHER ELEVATIONS.
HERE'S A SIX LIGHTS FIXED SASH
WINDOW THAT'S IN THE FRONT.
GABAL WALKING AROUND THE SIDE
OF THE HOUSE THIS IS THE EAST
SIDE.
YOU CAN SEE THAT THERE'S A
PERSON DOOR AND TWO WINDOWS ON
THIS SIDE THE ROOF OF THE
STRUCTURE IS COLLAPSED.
THE PROPERTY CHANGED HANDS AND
PRETTY RECENTLY I'M NOT SURE
EXACTLY WHEN BUT BUT PROBABLY
IN THE LAST YEARS MY GUESS AND
SHORTLY AFTER THE NEW OWNER
BOUGHT IT THE ROOF CAVED IN
WHICH WAS VERY UNFORTUNATE AND
IT'S BEEN OBVIOUSLY LETTING IN
A LOT OF WATER EVER SINCE THEN
YOU CAN SEE HERE THAT THAT
THERE'S THERE'S CERTAINLY SOME
DECAY AND THE THE THE THE TRIM
THE ESPECIALLY THE SIDING NEAR
THE THE GROUND THAT'S GOTTEN
MORE WET AND UP HERE THERE'S
JUST ALL ROTTED WOOD WHERE
WATER HAS BEEN SEEPING IN
PROBABLY FOR A WHILE.
THIS IS THE WEST SIDE OF THE
GARAGE.
THERE'S A GIANT GRAPEVINE
THICKETS.
SO I'M SORT OF LEANING IN AND
TRYING TO GET PICTURES.
BUT THE IMPORTANT THING TO
NOTICE ON THIS SIDE IS THAT AT
THIS CORNER THE BUILDING HAS
SHIFTED OR THE FOUNDATION HAS
SHIFTED ONE OR THE OTHER AND
THE THE THE GARAGE IS BUILT ON
THE PLATFORM HERE YOU CAN SEE
IT THIS IS THE BACK OF THE
GARAGE AND THIS IS A RAVINE
THAT'S PROBABLY WE ESTIMATED AT
TWENTY TO TWENTY FIVE FEET DEEP
AND IT'S NEARLY STRAIGHT DOWN.
IT'S THAT RAVINE THAT GOES
THROUGH THE NEIGHBORHOOD BACK
THERE OFF OF HERE BEHIND HERE
ON AND WINWOOD I THINK AND
STREETS LIKE THAT ON THE OTHER
SIDE.
SO SOMEBODY WHO BUILT THIS
GARAGE REALLY BUILT UP THIS
PLATFORM DOWN HERE THIS
FOUNDATION THERE ARE BRICKS
UNDERNEATH THIS CONCRETE AND IN
PARTS THIS IS A LARGE I DON'T
KNOW HOW MUCH OF THIS IS POURED
CONCRETE AND HOW MUCH OF THIS
IS JUST BRICKS WITH WITH
CONCRETE OVER IT.
PRETTY SURE THAT THESE ARE
BRICKS THAT YOU CAN SEE THROUGH
HERE WHERE THIS CONCRETE IS
FLAKING OFF AND THIS CORNER I
WAS POINTING OUT THIS IS THIS
IS WHERE EVERYTHING IS SHIFTED
.
I DON'T KNOW IF THE BUILDING
TALKED AND WENT TO THE RIGHT OR
IF THE FOUNDATION IS LEANING TO
THE LEFT.
BUT THERE'S A PROBLEM THERE.
SO WALKING AROUND THE BACK THIS
IS THE OTHER REAR CORNER AND
YOU CAN SEE WHERE THE SIDING IS
COMING OFF A LITTLE BIT HERE.
IT'S MORE SQUARE THOUGH IT
APPEARS THAT IT MIGHT BE
HANGING A LITTLE BIT OFF OF THE
FOUNDATION.
YOU'D HAVE TO LOOK MORE CLOSELY
FROM THE INTERIOR TO FIGURE
THAT OUT.
I THINK YOU CAN SEE SOME BRICK
THROUGH HERE INSIDE OF THE
GARAGE.
YOU CAN SEE THAT THE THE THE
ROOF FRAMING IS OBVIOUSLY SHOT
BECAUSE THAT'S COLLAPSED.
BUT THERE IS SOUND MATERIAL
INSIDE HERE.
THE FRAMING IS PRETTY MUCH
INTACT.
IT WOULD CERTAINLY PROBABLY
NEED SOME TO TO TO BEEF IT UP
A LITTLE BIT.
THE DOORS ON THE INSIDE GET TO
THEM IN A SECOND.
YOU CAN SEE THAT THERE'S THERE
ARE A COUPLE OF WINDOWS HERE
SILLS IT SAYS IN THE IN THE
RIGHT UP OUR DETERIORATED.
I TOTALLY BELIEVE THAT
THAT'S
PROBABLY SOMETHING THAT WOULD
NEED TO BE REPLACED HERE.
THE DOORS ON THE INTERIOR YOU
CAN SEE THAT IT'S JUST IT'S
JUST WOOD SLABS THAT THEY'VE
BUILT THE MORE DECORATIVE
EXTERIOR ON TOP OF WHICH DOES
HELP FOR DURABILITY.
AND HERE'S OUR UNFORTUNATE HOLE
IN THE ROOF OR IT'S CAVED IN.
THIS IS ANOTHER VIEW OF THAT
SIDE ELEVATION.
THERE ARE A LOT OF GREAT PHOTOS
IN THE PACKET THAT WERE
SUBMITTED WITH THE APPLICATION
.
I'M NOT GOING TO READ
EVERYTHING TO YOU BECAUSE
YOU'VE ALREADY HAD TIME TO GET
OVER HERE, ARTHUR.
YOU CAN SEE SOME BRICKS THAT'S
A GOOD SPOT.
SO I'M NOT SURE WHY SOMEBODY
FORMED CONCRETE AND JUST
PRESSED IT UP AGAINST THE
BRICKS.
IT'S JUST NOT A GOOD IDEA.
BUT THAT'S WHAT SOMEBODY DID AT
SOME POINT.
HERE'S A VERY TROUBLING SPOT
NEAR THE BACK CORNER DOES HAVE
LEAD BASED PAINT AS DO NEARLY
ALL OF THESE STRUCTURES
PRECAUTIONS WOULD HAVE TO BE
TAKEN TO FOLLOW THE BASED PAINT
STANDARDS WHEN WHEN SCRAPING
IT
STATES THAT THERE'S CRACKS.
SO IN SOME OF THE WOOD SIDING
THAT WOULD DEFINITELY HAVE TO
BE SELECTIVELY REPLACED WITH
NEW MATCHING WOOD SIDING IF IT
WERE TO BE REPAIRED.
THERE'S WRITING ON THE
DOORFRAME.
THE DOORS NEED TO BE
STRAIGHTENED AND DOORS WOULD
NEED TO BE REWORKED.
THE FLOOR IS WEAK, ROTTED AND
PATCHED TOGETHER.
THE CURRENT FLOOR IS NOT WEIGHT
BEARING FLOOR FRAME AND
SUBFLOOR NEED TO BE REPLACED.
SO I'M WONDERING IS THAT THE
FIRST FLOOR LIKE THE FLOOR
ABOVE NOW THIS IS SHOWING THE
FLOOR THE FIRST FLOOR NOT THE
LOFT RIGHT.
I WONDER IF IT HAD A WOOD FLOOR
ON TOP OF THE CONCRETE
OF SOMETHING ELSE IS GOING ON
THERE.
HERE'S THE ROOF CAVE IN.
YOU CAN SEE THE OLD KNOB AND
TUBE WIRING
WINDOWS.
LOOKS LIKE THE SASH IS MISSING
BY THE STAIRS
.
DOCUMENTS OF THE CHOICE AND
FRAMING SO IT'S A LOT TO LOOK
AT FRAMING AND MOST OF THE
WINDOWS HAS ROTTED AND IS IN
NEED OF REPLACING.
ALL RIGHT.
SO SINCE THIS IS A NOTICE TO
PROCEED, THIS IS THE ONLY WAY
THAT WORK CAN BE PERMITTED
THAT'S CONSIDERED INAPPROPRIATE
IN A HISTORIC DISTRICT.
SO EIGHT COLIN FOR ONE SIX
READS WORK WITHIN A HISTORIC
DISTRICT SHALL BE PERMITTED
THROUGH THE ISSUANCE OF A
NOTICE TO PROCEED BY THE
COMMISSION IF ANY OF THE
FOLLOWING CONDITIONS PREVAIL
AND IF THE PROPOSED WORK CAN BE
DEMONSTRATED BY A FINDING
OF THE COMMISSION TO BE
NECESSARY TO SUBSTANTIALLY
IMPROVE A CORRECT ANY OF THE
FOLLOWING CONDITIONS AND THE
APPLICANT HAVE CHOSEN
CONDITIONS A AND D TO APPLY
UNDER A IS THAT THE RESOURCE
CONSTITUTES A HAZARD TO THE
SAFETY OF THE PUBLIC OR TO THE
STRUCTURES OCCUPANTS AND D IS
THAT RETAINING THE RESOURCES
NOT IN THE INTEREST OF THE
MAJORITY OF THE COMMUNITY?
I'M JUST GOING TO LEAVE THIS UP
HERE.
WELL I FIND SOME COMMENTS FOR
YOU SO THE MASSIVE DESIGN
OF MATERIALS OF THIS GARAGE ARE
CONSISTENT WITH GARAGES
CONSTRUCTED AROUND THE NINETEEN
TWENTIES AND IT APPEARS ON
NINETEEN FORTY SEVEN CITY
AERIAL PHOTOS THE COMMISSION
HAS DETERMINED THAT RETAINING
AND MAINTAINING RESOURCES FROM
THE PERIOD OF SIGNIFICANCE FOR
THE MOST HISTORIC DISTRICT IS
APPROPRIATE AND SINCE A NOTICE
TO PROCEED PRESUMES THAT THE
WORK IS INAPPROPRIATE FOR THE
DISTRICT, THE USUAL STANDARDS
AND GUIDELINES DO NOT APPLY.
THE BURDEN IS ON THE APPLICANT
TO PRESENT DOCUMENTARY EVIDENCE
OF A SAFETY HAZARD OR WHY THE
WORK IS NECESSARY TO
SUBSTANTIALLY IMPROVE OR
CORRECT A HAZARD.
THIS IS I'M TALKING ABOUT
SUBSECTION A THAT THE APPLICANT
MUST SHOW THAT THE RESOURCE IN
THIS CASE THE GARAGE IS A
HAZARD TO THE SAFETY THE PUBLIC
OR THE STRUCTURES OCCUPANTS.
TECHNICALLY THERE'S NO ONE
OCCUPYING THE STRUCTURE THOUGH
A IT COULD BE SAID THAT THE
STRUCTURE IS IS DANGEROUS FOR
PEOPLE LIVING ON THE SITE
BECAUSE IT COULD COLLAPSE
POTENTIALLY AT SOME POINT OR
SOMEONE COULD HAVE BEEN INSIDE
WHEN THAT ROOF COLLAPSED ON
THEM.
LET'S SEE AND SO THAT'S THE
FIRST THING TO DETERMINE IS
WHETHER IT'S A HAZARD TO THE
SAFETY OF THE PUBLIC OR THE
OCCUPANTS AND THAT THE PROPOSED
REMOVAL IS NECESSARY TO
SUBSTANTIALLY IMPROVE A
CORRECTIVE HAZARD SO THE STAFF
CONCLUSION IS THAT THE RESOURCE
DOES CONSTITUTE A HAZARD TO THE
SAFETY OF THE STRUCTURES
OCCUPANTS IN THIS CASE THE
TENANTS THAT LIVE ON THAT LOT.
THE GARAGE ITSELF HAS NO
TENANTS THAT THE PUBLIC HAS NO
ACCESS.
THE GARAGE HAS BEEN NEGLECTED
AND PROOF OF THE NEGLECT IS
PROVIDED SUBMITTED PHOTOS AND
NARRATIVE BUT STAFF CONCLUSION
IS THAT THE PROPOSED DEMOLITION
WORK IS NOT NECESSARY TO
SUBSTANTIALLY IMPROVE OR
CORRECT A HAZARD TO THE SAFETY
OF THE STRUCTURES OCCUPANTS
BECAUSE IT CAN BE MADE SAFE BY
FOLLOWING THE SECRETARY
OF INTERIOR STANDARDS AND
GUIDELINES AND NO HISTORIC
DISTRICT COMMISSION DESIGN
GUIDELINES REHABILITATE THE
GARAGE WHILE RETAINING AS MANY
OF THOSE DARK MATERIALS AS
POSSIBLE AND SUBSTITUTING
REINFORCING WITH NEW MATCHING
MATERIALS AND MATCHING
DIMENSIONS WHERE NECESSARY.
THE AND THEN THE APPLICATION
INCLUDES AN EXPLANATION OF HOW
THE RESOURCE CONSTITUTES A
HAZARD TO THE SAFETY OF THE
PUBLIC OCCUPANTS.
IT STATES THAT THE STRUCTURE
HAS LITTLE TO NO SALVAGEABLE
MATERIALS IN ITS CURRENT STATE.
THE ROOF IS CAVED IN COMPLETELY
ON ONE SIDE AND CRACKED ON THE
OTHER.
THE FOUNDATION AND FLOODING IS
CRACKED AND DECAYED AND ERODING
HILL AND MUCH OF THE WOOD IS
ROTTED AND UNSTABLE IS UNSAFE
FOR TENANTS TO UTILIZE THE
GARAGE IN THE CURRENT CONDITION
AND WILL NEED TO DEMOLISH
COMPLETELY WITH MINIMAL IF NOT
NO SALVAGING OF EXISTING
MATERIAL.
SO MOVING ON TO SUBSECTION D
UNDER NOTICE TO PROCEED AN
APPLICANT MUST SHOW THAT
RETAINING THE HISTORIC
CHARACTER AND INTEGRITY OF THE
HISTORIC RESOURCE IS NOT IN THE
INTEREST OF THE MAJORITY OF THE
PEOPLE OF THE CITY OF ANN ARBOR
AND THAT THE PROPOSED WORK IS
NECESSARY TO SUBSTANTIALLY
IMPROVE OR CORRECT THIS.
SO THAT IS THE DC MUST FIND
THAT THE INTEREST OF THE
MAJORITY OF THE COMMUNITY IN
DEMOLISHING THE GARAGE OUTWEIGH
THE INTEREST OF THE MAJORITY
OF THE COMMUNITY AND PRESERVING
THE HISTORIC CHARACTER OF THE
GARAGE.
SO OBVIOUSLY THE COMMUNITY'S
INTEREST IN RETAINING HISTORIC
RESOURCES IS STRONG.
THAT'S WHY WE HAVE HISTORIC
DISTRICTS.
ANN CARVER HAS DEMONSTRATED THE
INTEREST OF THE COMMUNITY IN
RETAINING THIS RESOURCE BY
PLACING IT ALL LOCAL IN A LOCAL
HISTORIC DISTRICT STAFF
BELIEVES THAT THE PROPOSED
DEMOLITION DOES NOT OUTWEIGH
THE GREATER GOAL
OF SAFEGUARDING THE HISTORIC
CHARACTER OF THE SITE AND THE
SURROUNDING DISTRICT STAFF
CONCLUDES THESE BENEFITS WILL
NOT AFFECT THE MAJORITY OF THE
PEOPLE OF THE CITY OF ANN ARBOR
AND OUR INSUFFICIENT TO
OUTWEIGH THE DAMAGE TO THE OLD
WEST SIDE HISTORIC DISTRICT
CAUSED BY PERMANENT REMOVAL
OF THE HISTORIC GARAGE.
THE APPLICATION STATES THE
FOLLOWING REASONS WHY RETAINING
THE GARAGE IS NOT IN THE
INTEREST OF THE MAJORITY OF THE
COMMUNITY.
WE BELIEVE IN PRESERVING THE
HISTORICAL INTEGRITY OF ANN
ARBOR.
HOWEVER, THE GARAGE IS IN
COMPLETE DISREPAIR AS IT WAS
NOT MAINTAINED BY PAST OWNERS.
WE ARE UNABLE TO MAINTAIN THE
CURRENT STRUCTURE DUE TO THE
STATE THAT IS IN.
WE HAVE DEEP CONCERNS REGARDING
THE LOCATION OF THE GARAGE WITH
ITS FACILITY OF THE RAVINE
PRESERVING THE RAVINE IN ITS
NATURAL STATE HOLDS HISTORICAL
AND ESTHETIC VALUE REFLECTING
THE WAY OUR COMMUNITY HAS
COEXISTED WITH NATURE OVER THE
YEARS.
THE RAVINE AREA IS DELICATES
SUSCEPTIBLE TO EROSION AND SOIL
INSTABILITY.
THE WORK INVOLVED TO SHORE THE
HILLSIDE WOULD DESTROY HABITAT
FOR EXISTING ANIMALS THAT HAVE
MADE HOME IN THE TREES BURROWED
IN THE HILLSIDE ALONGSIDE IT TO
SHORE UP THE AREA.
FIVE TREES WOULD NEED TO BE
REMOVED AND REBUILDING WOULD
PUT THE LAND ALONG THE HILLSIDE
AN INCREASED RISK OF LANDSLIDES
AND LOSS OF VITAL NUTRIENTS
THAT SUPPORT A LOCAL ECOSYSTEM
REMOVING THE TREES AND STOPS AS
A DISRUPTION TO THE HABITAT FOR
WILDLIFE SPECIES AND WILL
FURTHER ERODE THE HILLSIDE
OF THE RAVINE AS ROOT SYSTEMS
WILL CONTINUE TO NOT EFFECT A
NEW FOUNDATION.
WE STRONGLY BELIEVE THAT WE
COULD DEMOLISH THE GARAGE IN A
DELICATE MANNER WITH MINIMAL
DISRUPTIONS THE ECOSYSTEM THAT
SURROUNDS IT AND THAT WE COULD
DO STRONGER WORK WITH
PRESERVING A NATURAL AREA IF
ABLE TO DEMOLISH RATHER THAN
REBUILD.
IT'S UNFORTUNATE THAT THE
PROPERTY OWNER DID NOT LEARN
FROM THE PREVIOUS OWNER THEIR
REAL ESTATE AGENT OR THROUGH
DUE DILIGENCE THAT THE SITE IS
AT A LOCAL HISTORIC DISTRICT
AND WHAT THAT MEANS IN TERMS
OF CODE REQUIREMENTS IF THIS
NOTICE TO PROCEED IS DENIED,
THE OWNER OR APPLICANT MUST
RETURN WITH AN ASSESSMENT
OF THE GARAGES HISTORIC
MATERIALS INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO SIDING FRAMING
WINDOWS, DOORS TRIM AND A
PROPOSAL TO REPAIR THE GARAGE
WHILE RETAINING AS MANY
OF THESE MATERIALS AS POSSIBLE.
STAFF DOES NOT BELIEVE THAT
DEMOLISHING A GARAGE IS
NECESSARY TO SUBSTANTIALLY
IMPROVE OR CORRECT A HAZARD TO
THE SAFETY OF THE STRUCTURES
OCCUPANTS OR THAT THE STATED
BENEFITS OF THE PROPOSAL
PROPOSED DEMOLITION OUTWEIGH
THE BENEFITS OF RETAINING A
HISTORIC CHARACTER OF THE SITE
IN RELATION TO THE OLD WEST
SIDE HISTORIC DISTRICT, I
RECOMMEND DENIAL OF THE
APPLICATION SO THERE ARE TWO
PROPOSED MOTIONS YOU DO NOT
NEED TO READ THEM VERBATIM BUT
THE FIRST ONE LET'S SEE I MOVE
KNOW TO PROCEED
.
I DID THE SAME AND I
THINK THE
FIRST ONE IS TO CONDITION A I'M
SORRY.
YOU'RE RIGHT.
YES THE FIRST ONE I THINK YOU
THE FIRST ONE SPEAKS TO
CONDITION AID.
THE SECOND SPEAKS TO CONDITION.
SO SINCE THEY APPLIED UNDER TWO
DIFFERENT CONDITIONS YOU NEED
TO HAVE A MOTION FOR EACH THAT
CONCLUDES STAFF REPORT.
THANK YOU.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
SO JUST A POINT OF ORDER HERE.
DO WE GO THROUGH THIS AS IF IT
IS A TYPICAL HEARING WITH THE
REVIEW LIKE WAS THERE A REVIEW
COMMITTEE AND ALL OF THOSE
THINGS?
OH YEP.
YEP.
I'LL JUST LET YOU GO ON AHEAD
THEN I SHOULD ADD THAT THE
ENTIRE COMMISSION WAS INVITED
TO THE REVIEW COMMITTEE VISIT
PER YOUR BYLAWS.
OK,
LET'S MOVE ON MYSELF AND
COMMISSIONER CALDERON WE'RE ON
THE REVIEW COMMITTEE AND WE
WILL GO THERE AND SO DO YOU
WANT TO GET YOUR SURE.
FIRST OFF OF PROPERTY LEANS
TOWARDS YOUR BEING WHICH IT ALL
THE RUN OFFS AND RUN DOWN TO
THE FOUNDATION AND DOWN TO THE
RAVINE.
THE BUILDING ITSELF IS ON HERE
ON WHICH TO GO THIRTY FIVE MILE
PRETTY BUSY BEING HOW FAR BACK
THE SHED IS THE GARAGE YOU
REALLY DON'T NEED ME NOT CITY
ARE NOT LOOKING FOR IT HOWEVER
ACROSS THE STREET FROM THE
GARAGE ALMOST DIRECTLY IS
ANOTHER STREET IN THAT IT'S
VERY HIGHLY VISIBLE FROM THAT
ONE STREET RIGHT ACROSS THE
STREET.
YEAH RIGHT ACROSS FROM ANOTHER
SIDE OF HERE ON WALKING AROUND
THE BUILDING AGAIN THE THE
FRONT WAS FAIR.
THE SIDES OF THE PANELING WAS
IN DECENT CONDITION WALKING
INSIDE OBVIOUSLY THE ROOF WAS
CAVING IN SOME OF THE CEILING.
JOYCE WHERE BEGINNING TO GRATE
MOST OF MOST OF THEM WERE
PRETTY WATER DAMAGED GOING DOWN
BELOW.
YEAH.
AS WE SAID BEFORE, THERE'S MANY
PARTS OF THE CONCRETE AND
FOOTING WERE COMPLETELY
SEPARATE FROM NATURAL LIKE AN
THAT'S IT FOR NOW I HAVE
QUESTIONS BUT WE CAN DO THAT.
WE'RE VERY GOOD.
WELL IT WAS A VERY THOROUGH
STAFF REPORT AND I AGREED WITH
IT AND SO I GUESS IT'S BEEN
MENTIONED BUT YEAH, I DO THINK
THAT THE THAT ONE PIECE
OF FOUNDATION THAT IS I'D SAY
SMALL BUT IT'S LIKE THERE'S GOT
TO BE A MORE EXTREME WORD, YOU
KNOW, BECAUSE IT'S LIKE THE
ENTIRE WALL COME OFF AND
SEPARATED.
I DO ALSO THINK IT'S FROM THE
RUN OFF DOWN THE RAVINE AND IT
HAS UNDERMINED THE FOOTING
OF THAT PART OF THE FOUNDATION
SUCH THAT THAT WALL HAD NOTHING
TO THAT'S JUST MY GUESS IS THAT
THERE'S WATER RUNNING RIGHT
ALONG THAT DOWN TO THE RAVINE
LIKE BEN SAID AND I'M I'M JUST
GUESSING THAT IT DOESN'T FEEL
LIKE THE WHOLE GARAGE HAS
SHIFTED.
IT REALLY IT'S JUST A GUESS BUT
IT SEEMS LIKE THAT LITTLE PIECE
HAS COME OFF.
BUT WHEN SOME OF YOUR
FOUNDATION WALL COMES OFF IT'S
JUST A MATTER OF TIME BEFORE
IT'S GOING TO AFFECT THE REST
OF THE BUILDING.
IT'S UNCLEAR IF IT HAS YET OR
NOT.
SO THEN YEAH LIKE THIS THIS
IMAGE ON THE RIGHT THAT'S
PROBABLY THE BIGGEST TREE THAT
IS IMPACTED HERE AND THAT'S
QUITE A TALL TREE LIKE THAT'S
GOING UP LIKE FORTY FEET AND IT
DOES ONE OF THOSE THINGS ONCE
IT CLEARS THE ROOF IT KIND
OF SWINGS OUT INTO THE AIR SO
THAT TREE HAS KIND OF GROWN UP
AND AROUND THIS.
SO IT'S NOT JUST THE GARAGE
THAT HASN'T BEEN MAINTAINED.
IT'S ALSO THE SITE AROUND IT.
THERE WAS A LOT OF A LOT THERE
WAS EVIDENCE OF LIKE GARBAGE
BACK IN THE RAVINE JUST LIKE
EMPTY BOTTLES AND STUFF LIKE
THAT.
IT WASN'T HORRIBLE THAT YOU
COULD JUST TELL IT JUST HASN'T
BEEN REALLY TAKEN CARE OF THE
MUCH LIKE STAFF SAID I MEAN
THIS GARAGE JUST LOOKS LIKE A
LOT OF OTHER GARAGES THAT WE
SEE IN THE DISTRICT.
IT JUST HAS THAT LOOK
ESPECIALLY FROM THE FRONT.
THERE'S THERE'S A LOT
OF EXAMPLES I THINK IT JUST HAS
THAT KIND OF FAMILIAR LOOK TO
IT.
I FELT LIKE THERE WERE CERTAIN
SO JUST LOOKING AT THE CLADDING
LIKE THERE WERE DEFINITELY
PARTS WHERE THE CLADDING IS
JUST TOTALLY ROTTED BEYOND
REPAIR.
BUT I'D SAY A LOT OF IT LOOKS
LIKE IT JUST REALLY NEEDS
SCRAPE AND PAINT.
I MEAN IT'S I THINK MOST NORMAL
PEOPLE WOULD LOOK THIS AND SAY
LIKE THIS IS GARBAGE, PUT IT IN
THE LANDFILL.
BUT I YOU KNOW, FROM MY
HISTORIC PRESERVATION EXPERTIZE
I'M LOOKING AT IT AND THINKING
LIKE THIS REALLY ISN'T THAT BAD
LIKE I'VE SEEN WORSE AND WITH
WITH THE RIGHT EXPERTIZE THIS
CAN BE RESTORED BY THE ONE
TRICKY THING ABOUT THIS IS THE
RAVINE AND IT'S NOT NOTHING
IT'S A REALLY STEEP RAVINE AND
YOU GOT TO DEAL WITH THAT
FOUNDATION WALL RIGHT THERE.
SO IT'S NOT IMPOSSIBLE.
THEY BUILT IT IN THE 20S AND IT
STAYED FOR A LONG TIME.
WE YOU KNOW, IT'S IT IS
POSSIBLE TODAY YOU KNOW, YOU
SUPPORT IT.
YOU GET RID OF THE FOUNDATION,
YOU BUILD A NEW FOUNDATION UP.
BUT IT IS SOMETHING IT'S REALLY
GOING TO BE SOMEONE'S GOING TO
NEED TO KNOW WHAT THEY'RE DOING
IN ORDER TO TO RESTORE THAT
LITTLE BIT.
OK,
ALL RIGHT.
SO MOVING ON THAT WAS THE
REVIEW COMMITTEE REPORT AND
WITH AFRICAN PLEASE COME
FORWARD, STATE YOUR NAME AND
ADDRESS FOR THE RECORD.
THANK YOU.
AND YOU'VE GOT UP TO FIVE
MINUTES TO SPEAK AND JUST
PLEASE WHAT DO YOU HAVE TO ADD
TO THE STAFF REPORT THE REVIEW
COMMITTEE REPORT THAT YOU'VE
HEARD SO FAR?
I'M CARRIE WILSON AND ON BEHALF
OF THE OWNER OF 12 TO 18 WHO
YEAR HERE I'M SORRY DID YOU SAY
KAREN?
KAREN KAREN.
I GUESS THE ONE THING THAT I
KIND OF WANT TO EMPHASIZE IS
THAT THAT ASIDE FROM THE PAST
OWNER AND CURRENT OWNER NOT
KNOWING THAT IT WAS IN THE
HISTORICAL DISTRICT, THEY ALSO
NOT KNOWING OF ANY HISTORICAL
SIGNIFICANCE, DIDN'T SEE THIS
AS AN ASSET THAT THEY NEEDED TO
CONTINUE TO MAINTAIN WITH THE
DANGERS OF THE REVEALING AND
THE AREA AROUND IT IN THE
NATURAL AREA BOTH OWNERS KIND
OF THOUGHT, RIGHT, LET'S NOT
RISK SHORING UP THE AREA JUST
DURING AND THE ENVIRONMENTAL
IMPACT I GUESS IS WHERE TO COME
AND SO THAT IS WHY IT HASN'T
BEEN MAINTAINED.
I I DO THINK YOU DID A GREAT
JOB OF EXPLAINING KIND OF THE
THE FOUNDATION ISSUES BUT YEAH,
I JUST KIND OF WANT TO
EMPHASIZE THAT AND JUST THE
KIND OF THE BUILDING MATERIALS
THAT ARE ROTTED AND OUR
SALVAGEABLE ARE ALSO MIXED WITH
DIFFERENT WITH WOOD AND BOARDS
THAT ARE OF DIFFERENT LINKS TO
CREATING THAT ARE ALSO KIND
OF ROTTED DUE TO POSSIBLY THE
ROOF BEING OPEN TO RAIN AND A
LOT OF THOSE AREN'T VERY
STRUCTURALLY THERE'S NOT A LOT
OF INTEGRITY OF THE STRUCTURE
BUT A LOT OF THE FOUNDATION
WORK.
OUR CONCERN IS DETERIORATING
THE STRUCTURE FURTHER BY
REPAIRING WITH THAT AREA IT
SEEMS LIKE YOU KNOW, WE'RE
GOING TO HAVE MORE FLOODS.
THERE'S GOING TO BE A LOT MORE
FLOODING JUST DUE TO THE THERE
AND THAT'S NOT A GREAT LOCATION
FOR A GARAGE OVER TIME THAT AND
IT'S SO YOU KNOW, FINANCIALLY
THAT'S A LOT OF MONEY TO PUT
INTO A GARAGE AND I KNOW THAT
THAT SITTING ON A HILLSIDE
THAT'S ERODING FURTHER.
SO I GUESS THOSE ARE JUST KIND
OF A FEW EXTRA COMMENTS THAT WE
THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
OK, SO NOW WE WILL WE'LL
ACTUALLY EITHER QUESTIONS FOR
THE APPLICANT FROM THE
COMMISSION.
I HAVE A QUESTION GREAT.
SO SOMEWHERE IN THESE PAPERS IT
TALKS ABOUT ONE OF THE
UNDERTAKING TAKINGS
OF REPAIRING THIS FOUNDATION
MAY INCLUDE RELOCATE IF YOU
HAVE ANY QUOTES OF HOW HOW MUCH
THAT MAY COST OR WHERE THAT
OPINION IS COMING
FROM HAVING
TO CHANGE THE FOUNDATION AND
SHIPPED IT OVER SOMEWHERE ELSE,
UM, I DON'T THINK THEY HAVE
REALLY SURE.
NO PROBLEM.
I GUESS THAT KIND OF SAME KIND
OF QUESTION IS IF A DELICATE
DEMOLITION CAN BE DONE, COULD A
DELICATE REHABILITATION BE DONE
AND YOU KNOW, HAVE YOU LOOKED
AT ALL THE OPTIONS OF REPLACING
THAT FOUNDATION OR FIXING THAT
FOUNDATION IN A WAY I MEAN DOES
YOU HAVE TO HAVE A NEGATIVE OR
PERMANENT IMPACT ON THE LIVING?
HAVE YOU EXPLORED OPTIONS THAT
SAY THAT CAN'T BE DONE YET?
COME ON.
COME ON OUT AND STATE YOUR NAME
AND ADDRESS AND LET US KNOW WHO
YOU ARE AND PLEASE.
YEAH, AND I'M FROM PHILLY BUT I
WORK HERE IN ANN ARBOR SO WE WE
HAD A HARD TIME FINDING A
VENDOR WHO WOULD BE WILLING TO
IT BECAUSE OF THE HILLSIDE WE
DID REACH FOR THREE OR FOUR
CONSTRUCTION COMPANIES.
NONE OF THEM WERE WILLING TO
TAKE THE PROJECT DOWN OR EVEN
BID IT.
THEY LOOKED AT OUR VIAN AND
THEY SAID WE WANT NOTHING TO DO
WITH THIS SO WE HAVE NOT BEEN
ABLE TO GET A QUOTE.
SO TO ANSWER YOUR QUESTION NO,
I THINK THE CONCERN IS LESS
IT'S A DELICATE DEMO.
YES, I THINK WE COULD DO THAT.
BUT I THE IMPACT OVER TIME
OF KEEPING IT ON THE HILL, IT'S
IT'S NOT GOING TO BE IT'S NOT
GOING TO LAST.
SO IT WAS GOING TO CONTINUE TO
ERODE AND WE MIGHT REPAIR THE
FOUNDATION NOW IF WE CAN.
BUT WHAT WILL HAPPEN IN FIVE,
TEN YEARS?
DO WE INSTRUMENTATION ON THE
EVOLUTION?
WHAT'S THAT?
IS THERE ANY DOCUMENTATION ON
THE EROSION?
I MEAN I GUESS THE ONLY THING
THAT WE'RE CONSIDERING IS WE'RE
SAYING THAT IS IT DIDN'T USED
TO BE FALLING THAT FAR AND NOW
IT IS I GUESS WE'RE MAKING AN
ASSUMPTION THERE'S BEEN A
REVOLUTION.
SURE.
YEAH.
WHAT DO YOU FALLING THAT FAR?
I DIDN'T I DIDN'T GET THE
FEELING WHEN I WAS THERE THAT
THE STRUCTURE HAD FALLEN AND
OUR ASSUMPTION WAS THAT IT WAS
NOT THAT FAR INTO THE RAVINE
BEFORE THAT THERE WAS MORE DIRT
NOT OK.
I MEAN THAT'S FINE IF YOU SAW
SOMETHING FOR NO, I GET WHAT
YOU'RE SAYING.
YOU'RE SAYING THE ACTUAL DIRT
LIKE THE RAVINE ITSELF IS
ERODING.
THE STRUCTURE ITSELF HAS HASN'T
MOVED CORRECT?
RIGHT.
IT'S MOVING AWAY FROM THE
RAVINE AND THEY'RE MOVING AWAY
FROM THE STRUCTURE.
EXACTLY.
YEAH.
OK, ARE THERE MORE QUESTIONS I
JUST GET THE ANALYSIS IS
REACHING THAT WHERE THE
CONSTRUCTION COMPANIES THAT
YOU'VE REACHED OUT TO.
YEAH.
HOW DO YOU KNOW HOW EXPERIENCED
THEY ARE.
YEAH LIKE WE AS METAL WORK TO
COME OUT YOU PROBABLY KNOW KIND
OF THESE UNIQUE AND YEAH YEAH
OK COMPANIES OF THAT CALIBER OK
YEAH YEAH.
YES THAT'S A GOOD QUESTION
ABSOLUTELY.
WHEN I WAS WONDERING ABOUT THE
FLOOR IT'S ON THE INTERIOR SO
IT DOESN'T REALLY AFFECT YOUR
HISTORIC DISTRICT LOCATION BUT
THERE IS IT A WOOD OVER
CONCRETE FLOOR OR IS THE
FOUNDATION HOLLOW AND IT SITS
ON WALLS OR IS IT JUST THERE OR
IS IT SOLID CONCRETE LIKE WHAT
YOU'RE SAYING IS THERE A
BASEMENT CRAWL SPACE?
YEAH.
YEAH I DON'T BELIEVE IT'S
BECAUSE IT'S BUILDING IT FELT
LIKE THERE WERE YEAH.
LIKE WOODEN BOARDS OVER A SLAB
.
LAUGHS YES.
ALAFIA YEAH.
SO SO BACK TO METAL ARE COMING
OUT.
YEAH.
GIVE US SOME MORE DETAILS ABOUT
THAT.
WHAT DID THEY SAY.
WHY WOULDN'T A YEAH I MEAN THEY
CAME FOR A STATE VISIT TO LOOK
AT IT AND JUST LIKE THEY'RE NOT
SET UP TO DO SOMETHING I NEVER
BEEN LIKE THAT SO THAT THEY
WEREN'T INTERESTED IN THE JOB
BASICALLY THEY CAME OUT WALKED
AROUND THE PROPERTY.
THEY SAID THIS IS TOO BIG OF AN
UNDERTAKING.
WE'RE NOT INTERESTED.
WOW.
OK, THAT IS SHOCKING.
OK, SO WE'RE WE'RE
DEAD RELOCATING FUNDING COME
FROM WE HAVE A HANDYMAN WHO HAD
SUGGESTED THAT ZINC ON STAFF
AND A COMPANY AND HE HAD
THOUGHT THAT THAT COULD BE A
POSSIBLE OPTION OR WAS THAT
SOMETHING MEADOWLARKS YOU JUST
HAD TO KNOW?
NO, I I CAN'T IMAGINE YEAH.
WHAT'S THAT PROPOSAL I'M MOST
FAMILIAR WITH THAT.
CAN YOU WHAT ARE YOU TALKING
ABOUT AS FAR AS WHAT YOU MEAN
BY THAT YOU'RE IN THIS REBUILD
STRUCTURE, PAIGE PAGE 107 ONE
OF THE SENSES IS THE
UNDERTAKING INVOLVES NOT ONLY
DEMOLISHING THE EXISTING
STRUCTURE AND ITS FOUNDATION
BUT ALSO RELOCATING A TASK THAT
COMES AT A SIGNIFICANT COST.
I THINK THE TYPICAL WAY TO DO
IT IS YOU YOU SHORE IT UP IN
PLACE AND YOU KIND OF LIKE JUST
KEEP IT THERE AND THEN YOU
REMOVE THE FOUNDATIONS AND THEN
YOU JUST REBUILD THE FOUNDATION
UP TO IT.
ISN'T THAT WHAT TYPICALLY IS
DONE IN HASTE STORE?
YEAH, RENOVATIONS YOURSELF?
I DON'T KNOW.
MAYBE THAT WAS A CREATIVE IDEA
BUT THAT'S CERTAINLY NOT THE
TYPICAL WAY OF REBUILDING A
FOUNDATION FOR ONE OF THESE.
BUT I THINK MOVING IT WOULD BE
DIFFICULT.
YES.
I MEAN YOU COULD ALSO MOVE IT
BUT OK.
YEAH AND THEN SO DID WHAT DID
THE OTHER OTHER OTHER I MEAN
MANY JUST DIDN'T WANT TO COME.
YEAH YEAH.
I'M JUST SAD THAT THEY DID THEY
DON'T DO HISTORICAL STRUCTURES
LIKE THE OTHER SIDE YOU KNOW I
WOULD I WOULD DON'T SEE THE
REASON TO FIX IT.
SURE SURE.
OK AND DO YOU CAN COME TO US
LATER IF YOU KNOW YOU HAVE
ANYTHING.
YEAH I WOULDN'T I WOULDN'T GO
THAT ROUTE.
YEAH YEAH.
AND WE DON'T FEEL COMFORTABLE
CALLING IT.
WHAT DO YOU MEAN THE COMPANIES
DON'T FEEL THOUGH.
THAT'S WHAT THEY SAY.
YEAH YEAH YOU WERE GOING TO
BUILD DIDN'T I GET NO OK ALL
RIGHT WELL THAT I GUESS THAT'S
INTERESTING INFORMATION.
DO WE HAVE ANY MORE COMMENTS
YOUR QUESTIONS.
I DON'T KNOW IF YOU INTENDED TO
BUT YOU MEAN I THOUGHT I HEARD
YOU SAY UH RELOCATING THE GOOD
DID YOU JUST WELL THE
FOUNDATION WAS OH THAT SEEMED
LIKE A CREATIVE IDEA THAT
SOMEONE HAD TO MOVE THE GARAGE
AWAY, FIX THE FOUNDATION THEN
MOVE IT BACK NOT AND I SAID YOU
COULD MOVE IT BUT I MEANT MORE
LIKE JUST AS HAPPENED TEMPORARY
YOU CAN MOVE A STRUCTURE OK,
YOU'LL SEE OUR LAST EXAMPLE ON
BUENA VISTA.
RIGHT.
THEY LIVED IN WASHINGTON, AN
ENTIRE HOUSE ALL THE WAY ACROSS
TOWN.
YES, I AS YOU MOVED THE
FOUNDATION.
YEAH.
WITH WITH THE BUILDING
SOMEWHERE ELSE LIKE SHIFTING TO
JUST REBUILD IT SOMEWHERE ELSE
.
IT'S PUTTING THAT MUCH YOU IT'S
A BIG FINANCIAL BURDEN TO PUT
THIS MONEY INTO ASSET THAT THE
OWNER DOESN'T ACTUALLY WANT TO
BEGIN WITH.
SO I THINK PUTTING THAT MONEY
IN KNOWING IT'S ON THE EDGE
OF A HILLSIDE, KNOWING THAT
THERE'S PROBABLY FURTHER
REPAIRS OR MAINTENANCE TO A
GARAGE, I THINK IT WAS JUST THE
IDEA OF MOVING IT TO NOT THE
EDGE OF THE HILLSIDE.
I SEE.
YEAH, I DON'T KNOW WHETHER OR
NOT WHICH DIDN'T SEEM LIKELY
THAT IT WOULD KIND OF WITHSTAND
THAT MOVE, RIGHT.
YEAH, RIGHT.
OK, OK.
ALL RIGHT.
MORE QUESTIONS OR COMMENTS
WHILE WE HAVE THE APPLICANTS
HERE THE YEAH I'M JUST TRYING
TO UNDERSTAND THE TIMING.
I MEAN SO THE CURRENT OWNER
TOOK OWNERSHIP IN I THINK IT'S
SAID MARCH THIS YEAR.
YEAH.
WHEN WHEN WERE THESE
CONTRACTORS CONTACT IS KIND
OF THE INITIATIVE.
SO HOW MUCH INITIATIVE WAS
THERE BY THE OWNER TO RESTORE
REPAIR, MAKE AN EFFORT ON
REHABBING THE STRUCTURE?
YEAH.
SO THE PREVIOUS OWNER I THINK
LIKE WE MENTIONED WAS NOT AWARE
IT WAS HISTORIC.
I KNOW HE COULD HAVE FOUND THE
INFORMATION THAT WE JUST DID
NOT KNOW THAT WAS PLANNING TO
DEMOLISH THE GARAGE, SOLD IT TO
A NEW OWNER WITH THE
UNDERSTANDING THAT HE COULD
CHOOSE TO DEMOLISH IT.
IT WAS KIND OF LIKE JUST DO YOU
WANT TO TEAR IT DOWN?
JUST TEAR IT DOWN.
I'M NOT GOING TO TEAR IT DOWN.
WE HAD A RENTAL INSPECTION A
FEW MONTHS GO AND THEY KNOW TO
THE CONDITION OF THE GARAGE AND
THEN WE SAID WELL WE'RE
PLANNING TO TEAR THAT DOWN.
THEN WE GOT IN CONTACT WITH
JILL AND THAT'S HOW THE PROCESS
STARTED.
SO AND YOU YOU SAID YOU
REPRESENT THE OWNER.
ARE YOU WE BROUGHT TO YOU WE
WORK AT THE COMPANY.
YEAH.
OK, DO YOU HAVE OTHER
PROPERTIES IN THE DISTRICT?
ACTUALLY WE MANAGE 311
CELEBRITY AND YOU ARE AWARE
THAT THEY'RE IN THE DISTRICT.
WE WERE NOT AWARE THAT PROPERTY
WAS IN THE DISTRICT THE OTHER
PROPERTIES SO WE DON'T HAVE A
LOT IN THAT HISTORIC DISTRICT
BUT NOW WE KNOW TO LOOK FOR
THAT.
YES OK.
ALL RIGHT GOOD OK SO I GUESS
CAN YOU PUT THE A D BACK UP ON
THE SCREEN?
LET'S JUST LOOK AT THE WORDING
THERE AND SEE IF THAT JOBS ANY
MORE QUESTIONS FOR THE
APPLICANT BECAUSE REALLY WHAT
THIS DOES COME DOWN TO RIGHT IS
IS THOSE TWO CLAIMS I GUESS YOU
WOULD SAY THAT THE APPLICANT
ARE MAKING ABOUT THE RESOURCE
AND THAT'S REALLY
WHAT WE'RE
GOING TO BE VOTING ON.
SO IF WE COULD JUST FOCUS ON A
THE RESOURCE CONSTITUTES A
HAZARD TO THE SAFETY OF THE
PUBLIC OR THE STRUCTURES
OCCUPANTS STAFF HAS SAID THAT
IT'S PROBABLY NOT AN ISSUE WITH
THE PUBLIC BECAUSE IT'S ON
PRIVATE PROPERTY BUT THAT SURE
THE THESE STRUCTURES OCCUPANTS
TECHNICALLY THERE'S NO
OCCUPANTS BUT THERE ARE PEOPLE
LIVING ON THE PROPERTY AND DID
WE DID THE RENTAL INSPECTOR
HAVE ANYTHING TO SAY ABOUT THE
SAFETY OF THE GARAGE?
IT'S CURRENTLY IN THE CITY
WE'RE CURRENTLY CAN'T PASS
INSPECTION DUE TO THAT.
WE HAVE TO HAVE A DECISION
ABOUT THIS TO PASS INSPECTION.
SO TECHNICALLY THERE'S NO NO
THERE'S NO ONE LIVING THERE
THEN.
NO, THERE IS THERE IS YOU JUST
IN SOME LIMBO, CORRECT.
YOU CAN REVIEW ALL OF THE
INSPECTION IT'S PASSED
PREVIOUSLY.
YEAH.
YES, YEAH.
OK, I MEAN I I DON'T REALLY
HAVE ANY QUESTIONS THERE.
I FEEL LIKE I CAN KIND OF GET
MY HANDS ON WHETHER OR NOT IT'S
REALLY A HAZARD.
I MEAN DOES ANYONE HAVE
QUESTIONS MEMBER HAS IT PASSED
PREVIOUSLY AND WE KNOW THAT THE
PREVIOUS OWNER DID NOT DO MUCH
TO MAINTAIN IT.
SO IT IS THE BIGGEST CHANGE NOW
UNDER THIS CURRENT REVIEW THE
ROOF CAVED IN OR WHAT UH,
WHAT'S DIFFERENT FROM THE
PREVIOUS APPROVAL?
I WOULD SAY THE FOUNDATION
LOOKS WORSE THAN IT DID BEFORE
TO BE HONEST.
LIKE YOU YOUR NEWER TO THE
COMPANY.
I HAD NOT SPENT A LOT OF TIME
LOOKING AT THE PERIMETER OF THE
BUILDING SO I FEEL LIKE I CAN'T
NECESSARILY SPEAK TO THAT.
YEAH, OK.
OK NOW SO I'M GOING TO JUST
SHIFT A QUESTION HERE BUT HANG
TIGHT SO THAT SO YOU'VE
MENTIONED JILL THAT THIS YOU DO
FEEL THAT THIS THAT THIS
RESOURCE CONSTITUTES A HAZARD
TO THE STRUCTURES OCCUPANTS YOU
MENTIONED THE THE PEOPLE
RENTING AND LIVING IN THE HOUSE
BUT THEN YOU SAID THAT THE SO
THIS TAX ISN'T ON THE SIDE IN
FRONT OF YOU SAID THAT OR IS IT
IT'S A LITTLE HIGHER UP.
OK SO SO THEN YOU'RE SAYING
THAT THE WORK COULD ACTUALLY
JUST FOLLOW THE GUIDELINES AND
THEN A WOULD BE RESOLVED SO
WHERE WHAT'S THE LANGUAGE FOR
THAT?
SO YOU HAVE TO FIND THAT THE
FOLLOWING CONDITIONS PREVAIL
AND THAT THE PROPOSED WORK
DEMOLITION CAN BE DEMONSTRATED
TO BE NECESSARY TO
SUBSTANTIALLY IMPROVE OR
CORRECT THE CONDITION.
SO IT'S BOTH THAT.
OK, SO THIS IS THE CONDITION.
YEAH.
AND I'VE GOT A DEMO AT DEMOS.
THE ONLY WAY TO FIX THIS SITE.
RIGHT IF THERE'S ANOTHER WAY TO
FIX A CONDITION LIKE JUST
RESTORE REPAIR FOR THE
GUIDELINES AND THIS DOESN'T
HOLD RIGHT UP STAFF'S OPINION.
OK, WELL I THINK THAT TO ME I'M
JUST SO SURPRISED THAT
MEADOWLARK IN PARTICULAR WOULD
SAY THAT THEY CAN'T DO THIS OR
THEY DON'T WANT TO DO IT AT
LEAST.
BUT IT SOUNDED LIKE THEY SAID
WE'RE NOT SET UP.
WE WEREN'T INTERESTED.
YEAH.
OH THEY WEREN'T INTERESTED.
OK, WHICH IS STILL SURPRISING.
I MEAN I FEEL LIKE THEY COULD
WORK ON A RAVINE BUT THEY
WEREN'T INTERESTED SO I I FEEL
STRONGLY THAT THIS CAN BE
REPAIRED BUT IT'S JUST WE'RE
HEARING THAT AT LEAST FOR THE
PEOPLE THAT YOU CALLED SO FAR
THAT THAT THAT'S YOU HAVE AT
LEAST BEEN ABLE TO FIND ANYONE
THAT COULD DO IT.
I FEEL LIKE I DON'T HAVE MORE
QUESTIONS ON THAT THOUGH.
DOES ANYONE NO MORE QUESTIONS
ON THAT LINE OF THINKING THERE
ESPECIALLY BEING ABLE TO PUT IN
THAT FRAME OF MIND THAT YOU
JUST KIND OF CLARIFIED THE TEXT
UP ABOVE?
VERY GOOD.
SO THEN LET'S MOVE TO D
RETAINING THE RESOURCE IS NOT
IN THE INTEREST OF THE MAJORITY
OF THE COMMUNITY AND THE ONLY
WAY TO RESOLVE THAT INTEREST
WOULD BE TO DEMO IT.
DOES ANYONE SEE ANY ANYTHING
THERE THAT MAKES THAT SOUNDS
CORRECT.
IS ANYONE AGREEING WITH THAT OK
,YEAH THAT ONE'S THAT ONE'S
HARDER THAT ONE'S THAT ONE'S
DIFFICULT.
IT'S A DIFFICULT HURDLE BECAUSE
OF REALLY WHAT THE WHAT STAFF
WAS SAYING ABOUT YOU KNOW THIS
IS A IT'S A CONTRIBUTING
STRUCTURE IN THE HISTORIC
DISTRICT AND THE COMMUNITY HAS
PUT THEIR THEIR INTEREST IN
THAT.
I MEAN I UNDERSTAND THAT YEAH.
A COUNTERPOINT IS THAT IF YOU
WERE TO SURVEY THE NEIGHBORS I
AM CURIOUS IF THEY WOULD CARE
IF THE STRUCTURE WAS TORN DOWN
OR NOT.
SO I UNDERSTAND YOUR METER
IDEA.
YEAH, BUT I ASKED MORE
SPECIFICALLY I WOULD WONDER IF
THEY WOULD HAVE, YOU KNOW,
THINK THAT IT IS A RESOURCE.
YEAH I I WOULD WONDER THAT TOO.
I MEAN IT SAYS THE MAJORITY
OF THE COMMUNITY SO LITERALLY
MEANS FIFTY ONE PERCENT OF ANN
ARBOR.
I MEAN IT'D BE GREAT IF WE
COULD VOTE ON IT BUT WE CAN'T
SO WE JUST HAVE TO GO WITH WHAT
WE VOTED ON PREVIOUSLY.
I UNDERSTAND.
YEAH.
SO I WOULD I WOULD LOVE TO KNOW
THAT TOO.
I KNOW THAT YEAH.
SO ANY ANY COMMENTS ON D THERE
I MEAN IT'S UNLESS YOU'RE WOULD
YOU ENGAGE THE COMMUNITY AT
LEAST THE HISTORIC DISTRICT THE
DISTRICT PROPERTIES IN A SURVEY
POORLY AND ALONE DOING THAT
IT'S A NO NO NOW I DON'T WANT
THE MAJORITY OF THE COMMUNITY
ENTIRE POPULATION OF RHODE
ISLAND IS ON THE BALLOT HAS
BEEN VERY CLEAR ON THAT ONE.
OK, RIGHT NOW THAT I'M HAPPY
FOR THE CLARIFICATION.
YEAH, OK, SO WE'VE BEEN THROUGH
ALL THE TEXT HERE.
I THINK WE'VE ASKED YOU THE
QUESTIONS THAT WE HAVE SO I'M
GOING TO OPEN THE PUBLIC
HEARING.
YOU CAN HANG THERE, YOU CAN SIT
AND WE JUST GOT TO GET THROUGH
THE PUBLIC HEARING NOW.
SO I'M GOING TO OPEN A PUBLIC
HEARING FOR THIS ITEM AT 12 18
WESTRAC.
DO WE HAVE ANYONE ON THE LINE?
THERE ARE NO ONLINE ATTENDEES.
OK, AND NO ONE'S NO ONE'S IN
HERE.
SO NOW I WILL CLOSE THE PUBLIC
HEARING WITH THIS ITEM AND I
WILL ASK IF ANY COMMISSIONER
WOULD LIKE TO MAKE A MOTION
HERE.
COMMISSIONER KIONA, PLEASE MAKE
GO THIS WE GO ONE BY ONE I
GUESS.
YEAH, WE'LL DO IT THAT WAY.
I MOVE THAT THE COMMISSION
ISSUED A NOTICE TO PROCEED WITH
THE APPLICATION AT 12 EIGHTEEN
W HERE ON STREET TO DEMOLISH A
GARAGE THAT IS A CONTRIBUTING
STRUCTURE IN THE OLD WEST SIDE
HISTORIC DISTRICT AS PROPOSED
THE COMMISSION FINDS THAT THE
GARAGE CONSTITUTES A HAZARD TO
THE SAFETY OF ONE OF THE
STRUCTURES OCCUPANTS AND THAT
THE PROPOSED WORK IS NECESSARY
TO SUBSTANTIALLY IMPROVE OR
CORRECT THIS CONDITION.
TO HAVE A SECOND SECOND OK THAT
WAS REMOVED BY COMMISSIONER
KIYONO AND SECONDED BY
COMMISSIONER CALDERON.
DO WE HAVE ANY DISCUSSION ON
THE MOTION?
OK, SO THIS ONE IS RELATED TO A
IT'S A SAFETY.
IT'S AS IT CONSTITUTES A SAFETY
CONSTITUTES A HAZARD TO THE
SAFETY OF ONE OF THE STRUCTURES
OCCUPANTS.
IS THAT THE RIGHT WORDING?
YOU KNOW, MORE OR LESS THAT'S
SO WE THAT'S WHAT OUR CITY
ATTORNEY.
YEAH, YEAH.
BECAUSE IT ONLY TAKES YEAH IT'S
JUST ONE'S ENOUGH OK AND WE'RE
NOT SAYING ONE AND ONLY ONE
WE'RE JUST SAYING ONE OK AND
ONE OF THEM IS FIRE AND THAT
THE PROPOSED WORK IS NECESSARY
SO THEREFORE THE DEMOLITION IS
NECESSARY SO OK WE'VE ALREADY
HAD QUITE A BIT OF DISCUSSION
HERE WITH THE APPLICANTS.
IS THERE ANY MORE COMMENTS?
I FEEL LIKE MAYBE JUST TO PUT
IT OUT THERE TO ME THIS WOULD
BE VERY CLEAR IF IT WASN'T ON
THE RAVINE.
THE RAVINE MAKES US COMPLICATED
.
YES, YES.
BUT NOT IMPOSSIBLE.
I FEEL LIKE I BUT I JUST THE
ISSUE IS MORE DIFFICULT THAN
WHAT'S OUT OF THIS WHAT IS THE
ISSUE OF THE OF EROSION I MEAN
TO IT NOW WE DON'T REALLY HAVE
ANY DATA ON THAT BUT IF IF IN
FACT THERE IS A REVOLUTION
OCCURRING AND THIS BUILDING IS
DOOMED BECAUSE THE SLOPES YOU
KNOW, PEOPLE ARE LOSING THEIR
BACKYARD WHICH I WOULD THINK
SOMEBODY WOULD HAVE DOCUMENTED
IF THIS IS HAPPENING AND THE
BUILDING IS DOOMED, I THINK
THAT THERE'S EROSION NEXT YEAR
BUILDING BECAUSE YOU HAVE NOT
MAINTAINED YOUR GUTTERS AND YOU
HAVEN'T MAINTAINED THE OF THE
SITE.
I MEAN YOU CAN HIT THE WATER
WAS RUNNING OFF THE ROOF WHEN
THERE WAS A ROOF AND IS GOING
RIGHT.
PROBABLY THE GUTTERS WERE FULL
IS JUST WATER COMING DOWN RIGHT
NEXT TO THE STRUCTURE IF YOU
HAVE SWAILS AND IF YOU HAVE
GUTTERS AND DOWNSPOUTS AND I
DON'T THINK THAT IT WILL BE
ERODING.
OK, SO YOU DON'T THINK THERE'S
ANY EROSION OCCURRING NOT
BECAUSE OF THE BUILDINGS THERE
BUT BECAUSE WE'RE GETTING MORE
RAINWATER BECAUSE THE ISN'T
MAINTAINED IN ANY YOU
SYSTEMATIC WAY THAT'S I GUESS
THAT IT IS OR ISN'T SO THAT THE
EROSION
NEXT TO THE BUILDING IS
BECAUSE OF THE GABLE ROOF AND
GUTTERS THAT WERE FULL
OF LEAVES AND JUST WATER
PROBABLY PEELING OFF OVER THE
TOP OF THE GUTTERS FOR A DECADE
AND THAT'S GOING TO ERODE RIGHT
NEXT TO YOUR BUILDING AND THEN
YOUR FOOTING IS GOING TO BE
WHAT IS THE WHERE THERE AREN'T
BUILDINGS ERODING OVER TIME TO
ANY EXTENT DO WE ARE YOU
PROPOSING THAT IT IS THE
DOCUMENTATION OF THE IS THERE
FOR THE REVIEW COMMITTEE TO
LOOK AT ADJACENT PROPERTIES AND
THERE ARE SIMILAR THERE ARE
THERE ARE SIMILARLY CONFIGURED
BUILDINGS THAT YOU CAN SEE FROM
THERE YOU CAN SEE FOUNDATION
WALLS.
THIS IT WAS IT SEEMS LIKE IT
WAS SORT OF A THING AT ONE TIME
TO BUILD UP THE BACK OR TO PUSH
YOUR GARAGE AS FAR BACK AS
POSSIBLE ON YOUR LOT.
WE COULD ALSO SEE SIMILAR WORK
ACROSS THE RAVINE, THE OTHER
STREET THOSE THOSE WERE A LOT
EASIER TO SEE WHETHER OR NOT
THERE WAS EROSION AFFECTING
THEM OR NOT I COULDN'T SAY.
BUT THEY DID EXIST.
YEAH.
AND WHETHER IT WOULD AFFECT
THEM IN FIVE YEARS OR A HUNDRED
YEARS WELL IT'S BEEN THERE FOR
ONE HUNDRED YEARS ALREADY AND
IT HASN'T FALLEN INTO THE
RAVINE I GUESS IT HAS I WOULD
SAY TO THAT OK SO IF IF THERE
IS INCREASING WATER LEVELS AND
STORMS AND THAT JUST KIND
OF BECOMES LIKE WE ALL NEED TO
PROPER WATER MANAGEMENT ON A ON
THE PROPERTY AND ADDRESSING THE
AND SOME ARE MORE DIFFICULT
THAN OTHERS OF COURSE.
YEAH I WITH ALL THOSE THINGS
BEING SAID I JUST FEEL LIKE
READING THE MOTION AT THE THE
COMMISSION FINDS THAT THE
GARAGE IS A HAZARD AND THAT THE
ONLY WAY TO FIX THAT HAZARD IS
THROUGH DEMOLITION OF THE
GARAGE.
I'M JUST NOT I'M JUST GOTTEN TO
THAT POINT WHERE I'M JUST NOT
BUYING THAT I THINK THAT
THERE'S A WAY TO FIX THIS
GARAGE AND REPAIR THE HAZARD
WITHOUT DEMOLISHING IT.
SO ANY MORE DISCUSSION ON THIS
AND THIS ONE HERE?
OK, IN THAT CASE ALL THOSE IN
FAVOR OF THE MOTION PLEASE SAY
YES, ALL THOSE OPPOSED PLEASE
SAY NO, NO, NO, NO.
OK, SO THE FIRST MOTION DID NOT
PASS SO YOU DO NOT NEED TO
CONTINUE WITH THE SECOND MOTION
,OK, BECAUSE YOU'VE NOW DENIED
THE APPLICATION NOTICE TO
PROCEED.
YEAH OK.
ALL RIGHT
OK SO THE MOTION WAS
DENIED NOW SINCE THIS IS A
NOTICE TO PROCEED IT'S
DIFFERENT.
THERE'S THERE'S SOMETHING THAT
IS REQUIRED NOW THE APPLICANT
IS THAT CORRECT?
WELL SINCE YOU'VE DETERMINED
THAT THE WORK'S NOT APPROPRIATE
AS PROPOSED NOW THE APPLICANTS
NEED TO COME BACK WITH A NEW
APPLICATION FOR APPROPRIATE
WORK AND THAT WILL MEAN
QUANTIFYING INVENTORYING WHAT'S
SAVABLE AND WHAT'S NOT.
IT'LL PROBABLY MEAN TALKING TO
A COUPLE LIKE FOUNDATION
SPECIALISTS.
I WOULD I WOULD RECOMMEND I'M
NOT SAYING I WOULD RECOMMEND TO
YOU I'M RECOMMENDING THAT YOU
WOULD TALK TO A COUPLE
FOUNDATION SPECIALISTS.
I GIVE YOU SOME NAMES OF PEOPLE
THAT DO WORK REGULARLY IN THE
HISTORIC DISTRICTS AND THEN
REAPPLY TO THE COMMISSION WITH
A NEW APPLICATION FOR
RESTORATION OF THE BUILDING.
IT WILL PROBABLY NEED TO COME
BACK TO THIS BODY.
IT MIGHT BE A STAFF APPROVAL.
IT JUST DEPENDS ON THE EXTENT
OF THE WORK THERE IS.
YOU CAN APPEAL TO THE STATE
HISTORIC PRESERVATION BOARD AND
I CAN GIVE YOU I CAN SEND YOU A
LINK ON HOW TO DO THAT FIRST IT
GOES TO ADMINISTRATIVE TRIAL
COURT EITHER IN DETROIT OR
LANSING MAY MAKE A A RULING
THAT'S NON BINDING AND THEN IT
ALL GETS REVIEWED BY THE STATE
HISTORIC PRESERVATION REVIEW
BOARD AND THEY DECIDE WHAT TO
DO WITH IT, WHETHER THEY CAN
OVERTURN THAT, THEY CAN SEND IT
BACK IF THERE'S ADDITIONAL
INFORMATION OR OR THEY CAN
APPROVE IT AND THEY USE THE
SAME STANDARDS WITH EXACTLY THE
SAME YEAH.
SO THEY DON'T HAVE DIFFERENT
RULES.
THEY'VE GOT THE SAME RULES.
YEAH.
NO B AND THE CONDITIONS YOU
COULD IF YOU WANTED TO THOSE
ARE THE LEAST LIKELY I THINK
OF THE FOUR STANDARDS THEY'RE
HARDER TO APPLY BUT YES YOU
COULD DO THAT THANK YOU VERY
MUCH IS WHY IS THERE A TIME
LIMIT WHEN THEY NEED TO COME
BACK?
NO, NOT FOR US.
ALL RIGHT.
DON'T WAIT TOO LONG NOW THE
RENTAL HOUSING ON THAT.
YEAH, OK.
ANY MORE QUESTIONS ARE WE'RE
GOING TO MOVE ON.
OK, SO THAT WAS THE LAST
HEARING SO NOW WE WILL GO ON TO
NEW BUSINESS AND THERE IS NONE
THERE IS NO NEW BUSINESS SO NOW
WE'VE GOT TO APPROVAL
OF MINUTES AND THERE'S THREE
MINUTES IN YOUR PACKETS TO
REVIEW AND SO HOPEFULLY YOU
REVIEW THOSE LET'S LET'S GO
WITH JUNE 1ST.
ARE THERE ANY JUNE COMMENTS
JULY OR AUGUST?
LET'S JUST PUT THEM ALL OUT
THERE.
ANY COMMENTS?
I THINK I HAD ONE YEAH.
ONE
TAKE YOUR TIME.
TAKE A LOOK WHAT I CAN DO THAT
COMMISSIONERS' I'M GOING TO
INTERRUPT YOU RIGHT NOW.
I THINK I JUST SCREWED UP.
I THINK WE WERE SUPPOSED TO
VOTE ON THE SECOND NOTICE TO
PROCEED APPLICATION.
OK, SO I'M GOING TO RUN AND SEE
IF I CAN STOP HERE AN AREA AND
WE'RE GOING TO GO BACK TO THAT.
OK, BUT FEEL FREE TO CONTINUE
WITH THE MINUTES.
OK, I'M LOOKING WOULD YOU
CHILLS RUNNING DOWN YOUR OWN
STREET TO OH I FIND IT OK OK
WELL HOLD THAT THOUGHT.
YES
I THINK WE COULD STILL VOTE
ON IT WITHOUT THE APPLICANTS
HERE I'M GUESSING RIGHT.
YEAH I DON'T KNOW.
YEAH WE HAVE AN APPLICANT FOR
ANY LUCK OK THEY HAVE DECLINED
THEY DON'T FEEL THE NEED TO
COME BACK UP.
YEAH BUT WE DO NEED TO ACT ON
THE SECOND.
I'M SORRY GUYS THAT'S OK.
IT CAME UP IN AN EARLIER ONE
BUT IT WAS DIFFERENT AND I
REALIZED THAT TOO LATE.
OK, SO WE'RE GOING BACK TO
HEARING AT FIVE AND I THINK
THAT I'LL ASK SOMEONE TO READ
THE SECOND MOTION RIGHT?
YES.
SO DOES ANYONE INTERESTED OK,
COMMISSIONER, CAN YOU GO ALL
RIGHT.
I MOVE THAT THE COMMISSION
ISSUED A NOTICE TO PROCEED FOR
THE APPLICATION AT 12 18 WEST
HERE ON STREET TO DEMOLISH A
GARAGE THAT IS A CONTRIBUTING
STRUCTURE IN THE OLD WEST SIDE
HISTORIC DISTRICT AS PROPOSED,
THE COMMISSION FINDS THAT THE
RETENTION OF THE RESOURCE IS
NOT IN THE INTEREST OF THE
MAJORITY OF THE COMMUNITY AND
THAT THE PROPOSED DEMOLITION IS
NECESSARY TO SUBSTANTIALLY
IMPROVE OR CORRECT THIS
CONDITION.
DO I HAVE A SECOND SECOND THAT
WAS MOVED BY COMMISSIONER
KIYONO SECONDED BY COMMISSIONER
FORTNER?
IS THERE ANY DISCUSSION ON THIS
MOTION THINK THAT I THINK THIS
ONE'S MORE CLEAR.
IT'S MORE CLEAR CUT ALTHOUGH
IMPOSSIBLE TO KNOW ALL THE
INFORMATION HERE BECAUSE WE
CAN'T VOTE ON IT.
WE JUST HAVE TO GO ON WHAT WE
ALREADY KNOW.
I REMEMBER THIS ONE FOR FOUR
FIFTEEN LESS WASHINGTON.
I THINK THERE WAS TAXES
INVOLVED THERE.
IT WAS LIKE THERE WAS SOME
FINANCIAL STAKE IN THE GAME OR
SOMETHING AND IT SEEMED LIKE
THE ENTIRE CITY WAS GOING TO
HAVE MORE OF A FEELING ON IT OR
SOMETHING FOR SOMETHING LIKE
THIS.
I DON'T REALLY KNOW HOW YOU
WOULD KNOW RIGHT WITHOUT AN UP
AND DOWN VOTE THAT WE CAN'T
HAVE.
SO SHALL WE VOTE HERE AT LEAST
WE CAN WE CAN VOTE ON THIS.
OK, SO ALL THOSE IN FAVOR
PLEASE SAY YES.
ALL THOSE OPPOSED
SAY NO, NO.
THE MOTION DOES NOT PASS SO THE
NOTICE PROCEED TO PROCEED FOR
THAT MOTION WAS ALSO DENIED.
THANK YOU.
YEAH THAT'S GREAT RETENTION.
I'M GLAD WE GOT THAT SQUARED
AWAY.
WE DO SO NOW WE DO HAVE SOME
COMMENTS ON THE NOTES.
IT SOUNDED LIKE COMMISSIONER I
DON'T HAVE ONE.
I JUST WHICH MONTH FOR AUGUST.
OK OK.
UH FOR THOSE FOLLOWING ALONG UH
PAGE FIVE OF SEVEN IT SAYS MOVE
BY COMMISSIONER ROSS SECONDED
BY AND THEN IT DOES NOT PROVIDE
OH MY NAME IS WE'D HAVE TO GO
BACK TO THE TAPE PERHAPS IF WE
WILL LOOK THAT UP AND FILL IN
THE BLANK.
OK THANK YOU.
YEP.
ALL I ALSO HAD ON FOR AUGUST
ALSO WELL MAYBE THIS IS EVEN
LESS IMPACTFUL BUT ON THE WEB
PAGE SIX OF SEVEN SO THIS WAS
THE ONE I WAS RECUSED IN THE
VOTE SAYS FOR NOTHING FOR ZERO
LET'S SAY BUT REALLY IT MUST
HAVE BEEN THREE ZERO BECAUSE I
WASN'T THERE.
DOES THAT KIND OF THING MATTER?
DO WE JUST WANT TO GET IT
RECORDED CORRECTLY?
WE WANT IT TO BE CHANGED THAT
IN THE MINUTES DOESN'T CHANGE
THE OUTCOME.
THE BREAKDOWN OF ARE JUST GOING
TO BE YEAH.
THE BREAKDOWNS RIGHT.
YEAH.
VERY GOOD.
OK SO AS MENDED AS CHANGE.
YES.
I'M SORRY HOW MANY MEMBERS WERE
PRESENT LAST MONTH.
OH WELL WE'VE GOT ONE TWO THREE
FOUR IT WAS FOUR FIVE FIVE YEAH
I WAS RECUSED WE HAD FOUR OK SO
IT WASN'T THE VOTE CORRECT FOR
AS YOU WELL KNOW BECAUSE I WAS
RECUSED SO THAT'S HE SAID WAS
NOT THERE.
YEAH.
THEN WHAT BEN WASN'T THERE.
NO BUT JENNIFER BUT JENNIFER
WAS I SEE VICE CHAIRMAN
OF SECRETARY FORNER AND ROSS
THERE WERE FOUR OF US TOTAL
RIGHT THEY YEAH OK YEAH OK GOT
IT.
OK IT'S GOOD IT WAS THREE ZERO
YES YEAH YES EVERYONE GOOD
DOUBLE CHECKING I GOT I WAS UP
WITH IT AND THEN I WAS CONFUSED
FOR A SECOND NOW ANYWAY WE'RE
ALL THERE OK YEAH SO IT'S ABOUT
AS AS AMENDED WE ARE APPROVING
THE MINUTES WITHOUT OBJECTION
GREAT THANK YOU.
THANK YOU SO NOW CAN I MOVE ON
REPORTS FROM COMMISSIONERS' CNN
.
WE'RE GOING TO GO TO
ASSIGNMENTS AND WE'VE GOT THE
REVIEW COMMITTEE NEXT MONTH.
WE'RE WE'RE SWITCHING TO
NEWS NEUN SO THAT IS CORRECT
AND IT IS ON A TUESDAY.
OH BECAUSE DIGITALIZE PEOPLE'S
DAY OK COLUMBUS' UH
TWO I WOULD
HAVE JUMPED AT IT BECAUSE IT'S
BEEN QUITE A WHILE BUT I HAVE A
APPOINTMENT BUT RIGHT BEFORE
THAT OK SO I PROBABLY MAKE IT
OK.
YEAH GREAT THANK YOU.
I FORGOT IT.
COMMISSIONER ROSS LIKES THE
FIVES I THINK SHE'S A FIVE I
DON'T KNOW WHAT I CAN DO THAT
SHE DOESN'T LIKE TO DO IT.
YOU CAN DO IT RIGHT.
THANK YOU CANDY.
THANK YOU KATHY AND THE I DO
LIKE THE NEW ONES BUT I JUST
DIDN'T SO TO DO THAT BUT THANK
YOU FOR DOING IT BACK TO BACK.
I APOLOGIZE.
I ENJOY IT.
OK SO WE GOOD TO MOVE ON.
WE'LL GO TO REPORTS FROM STAFF
PLEASE REPORT UM I DON'T HAVE
ANY SERIOUS REPORTS.
I AM MEETING WITH OTHER THE
ADMINS THAT WORK ON THE
HISTORIC DISTRICT COMMISSION
STUFF PROBABLY NEXT WEEK AND
WE'RE GOING TO REVIEW A LITTLE
BIT OUR SCHEDULES FOR GETTING
STUFF TO YOU GUYS NOTIFYING
APPLICANTS MORE CONSISTENTLY
TRYING NOT TO GET ALL OF THIS
LAST MINUTE STUFF THAT HAS BEEN
CREEPING UP ON US.
SO IF YOU EVER ARE
INCONVENIENCED BY OUR TIMELINES
OR HAVE SUGGESTIONS OR JUST
DON'T LIKE SOMETHING, FEEL FREE
TO LET ME KNOW BECAUSE YOU
KNOW, SOMETIMES WE'RE SUPER
ORGANIZED AND SOMETIMES WE'RE
KIND FLYING BY THE SEAT OF OUR
PANTS AND WE'RE TRYING TO BE
SUPER ORGANIZED ALL THE TIME.
SO ANY COMMENTS ARE ALWAYS
TAKEN KINDLY AND APPRECIATED.
THAT'S A GREAT HAD HAVE YOU
HEARD FROM THAT MAIN STREET
PROJECT THAT IS PRESENTED A
COUPLE OF TIMES?
THEY'RE NOT IN A HISTORIC
DISTRICT THE CHASE BANK.
NO, NO, NO.
THAT IS AN INTERESTING PROJECT
BUT I NOTICE ON THE MAP THAT
THE THE HISTORIC DISTRICTS
OF HOW KIND IT'S AROUND YAK'S
GOT SOME I'M TALKING ABOUT THE
YOU'RE TALKING ABOUT 12 TO 14.
YES.
I MEAN YES.
YEAH, YEAH.
I HAVE NOT HEARD BACK FROM THEM
AGAIN.
I DIDN'T MEET WITH THEM ON SITE
ONCE AFTER THAT MEETING BUT I
DON'T KNOW WHAT THEIR PLANS ARE
ACTUALLY YOU KNOW THEY THEY ARE
WORKING ON NEW PLANS BUT I
HAVEN'T SEEN THEM.
OK, SO YOU MAY BE SEEING
SOMETHING FROM THEM IN
OCTOBER WHICH I THINK TO TWELVE
AND TWO NIGHTS I DELIVERED JUST
JUST OFF OF LIBERTY URBAN WHERE
THEY WERE GOING TO GET THE
ENTIRE BUILDING AND JUST LEAVE
THE OUTSIDE WALLS OK YEAH JUST
PLAN THE YEAH I THINK IT WAS
DARK STREET AND GETTING YEAH
YEAH YEAH YEAH YEAH YEAH.
OK ONE OTHER REPORT FROM
STARFURY WE DO HAVE TWO NEW
WELL TWO APPLICANTS THAT HAVE
BEEN RECOMMENDED TO THE MAYOR
AND CITY COUNCIL FOR OUR TWO
VACANCIES ON THE FANTASTIC CAN
YOU SHARE THEIR NAMES WITH US.
NO PLOT ON THE AGENDAS YET OR
ANYTHING OR YOU KNOW THEY'VE
GOT TO BE VETTED FIRST I GUESS.
OK VERY GOOD BUT HOPEFULLY I'LL
KNOW MORE NEXT MONTH.
DO YOU THINK THEY'LL JOIN US
NEXT MONTH?
POSSIBLY.
WHAT'S THE EARLIEST WE COULD
HAVE?
I DON'T KNOW FOR SURE.
I'M GUESSING NOVEMBER.
WOW THAT WOULD BE SO EXCELLENT.
YES IT WOULD.
INTERESTING.
YEAH.
ANYTHING ELSE YOU KNOW OK WHAT
CONCERNS COMMISSIONERS ANYTHING
COMMISSIONERS TWO ITEMS COME TO
MIND OK ONE TOUCHED UPON A
LITTLE BIT AND I KNOW THAT THE
CHASE BANK PROPERTY IS NOT IN
THE DISTRICT BUT IT'S VERY
DISTRICT ADJACENT AND I GUESS
WE DON'T HAVE ANY BUT HOW IS
THERE ANY YOU CAN ATTEND THE
PUBLIC HEARINGS YOU WRITE
LETTERS TO YOUR CITY COUNCIL
MEMBERS.
YEAH.
AS AS A CITIZEN.
YEAH OK.
YEAH YEAH.
UNFORTUNATELY SINCE THE AGENCY
DOESN'T HAVE ANY PURVIEW I I
DON'T IT WOULDN'T BE LIKE
FORBIDDEN FOR THE COMMISSION TO
HAVE AN OPINION AND STATE IT
AND SHARE IT WITH CITY COUNCIL
RIGHT.
JUST KNOWING THAT IT WOULDN'T
BE ANYTHING THAT YOU CAN
REGULATE.
YEAH YEAH OK GOOD TO KNOW YEAH.
DO YOU THINK WE SHOULD DO
SOMETHING LIKE THAT.
WELL I PERSONALLY I WOULD NEED
TO READ UP A BIT MORE ON IT BUT
I DON'T KNOW WHAT THE OTHERS
THINK.
UM I THINK I KNOW WHAT YOU'RE
TALKING I HAVE TO BUY INTO THE
WORDS UM MEANS MENAS ARGENTON.
YEAH YEAH.
I MEAN A QUESTION WITH A CHASE
BANK IS NOW OH YEAH THERE'S A
IT'S AN OLD BUILDING IN A NEW
SKIN RIGHT.
DAVID OSTLER DESIGN AND THE OLD
BUILDING UNDERNEATH IS THREE OR
FOUR OR FIVE STORIES IT'S NOT
HUGE.
UM AND THE PROPOSAL IS TO PUT
VERY TALL BUILDING IN PLACE
TALLER THAN THE DOWNTOWN ZONING
ALLOWS SO IT WOULD BE A PLANNED
UNIT DEVELOPMENT AND IT'S LIKE
TWICE AS TALL AS THE FIRST
NATIONAL THAT WOULD BE ON THE
OTHER CORNER OF THE BLOCK AND
THEY WOULD DEMOLISH WHAT'S
THERE.
YEAH, YEAH YEAH.
WHAT'S THERE IS A LITTLE BIT
TOUGH BECAUSE IT'S AT LEAST TWO
SMALLER BUILDINGS THAT HAVE
THROUGH FLOORS THAT ARE AT
DIFFERENT LEVELS AND I THINK A
LOT OF IT DOESN'T MAKE SENSE ON
THE INTERIOR.
LOTS OF OTHER BUILDINGS ALSO
DON'T MAKE SENSE ON THE
INTERIOR AND THEY HELP THEM
MAKE SENSE.
BUT THE PROPOSAL TO DEMOLISH
THEM SOMETHING VERY LARGE SO IT
WOULD BE APPROPRIATE FOR US TO
COME UP WITH A STATEMENT ON
IMPACT ON THE VIEWSHED HISTORIC
DISTRICT.
YES, AND WE COULD DO THAT AND
WHEN THE DISTRICT BOUNDARY WAS
ESTABLISHED IN CHINA, I MEAN
THAT BUILDING HAD ALREADY BEEN
MODIFIED AND RESCANNED, RIGHT?
YEAH, RIGHT.
AND THERE ARE A COUPLE OF OTHER
BUILDINGS ON THAT BLOCK THAT UM
HAVE MODERN FACADES AND THINGS
WHICH IS WHY I'M ASSUMING THAT
THAT BLOCK WAS LEFT OUT OF THE
DISTRICT BECAUSE ENOUGH HAD
BEEN ALTERED ALREADY THE POST
OFFICE YOU KNOW THAT'S THE NEXT
BLOCK
OF MY UM WHAT'S YOUR
OTHER CONCERN?
MY OTHER CONCERN IS PROPERTY
OWNERS NOT KNOWING THAT THEY'RE
IN THE DISTRICT.
WE MAY HAVE TOUCHED UPON THIS
AT A RETREAT AT ONE TIME, BUT
IS THERE ANY WAY TO GET I DON'T
KNOW LIKE THERE THERE ARE
COMMUNITY THERE ARE COMMUNITIES
THAT MAIL OUT A POSTCARD EVERY
TIME A PROPERTY IN A HISTORIC
DISTRICT CHANGES HANDS.
THAT'S A LOT EASIER TO DO WHEN
YOU'VE GOT 20 HISTORIC SOURCES
INSTEAD OF EIGHTEEN HUNDRED.
YEAH YEAH.
WELL IT'S TOO LATE RIGHT?
YES.
IT'S AFTER THE FACT THAT OH BY
THE WAY RIGHT NOW YOU'RE STUCK
.
I DON'T KNOW THE INFORMATION'S
ON A PROPERTY LISTING.
I LIKE THE EASEMENT ON THE
TITLE.
YEAH YEAH YES AND I DO NOT HAVE
A CITY STATE RUN ON THE TITLE.
YEAH BECAUSE I DON'T KNOW IF
THIS LAST TRANSACTION FOR THAT
PROPERTY DIDN'T GO THROUGH A
REALTOR IT WAS A REALTOR BUT
THERE WAS ONE REAL ESTATE IT
WAS ONLY LISTED BUT IT WENT TO
THE REALTOR.
YEAH I WENT THROUGH THE REALTOR
YEAH THAT WAS YEAH.
SO A LOT OF PEOPLE FIND OUT
THAT THE RENTAL INSPECTOR TOLD
AND THEY LOOK AT CITY MAPS THEY
HAVE KNOWLEDGEABLE REALTORS WHO
IT'S REALLY THE REALTOR RIGHT.
YEAH YEAH.
SOMETIMES THEY JUST CALL ME AND
ASK SURE.
YOU KNOW LOTS OF REALTORS DO
THAT MOST OF THEM LOOK IT UP
THEMSELVES BUT SOMETIMES PEOPLE
JUST SAY KNOW JUST SAY HEY I
SAW THIS ONLINE.
IS IT THE OLD WEST SIDE?
IT'S SOMETIMES A SELLING POINT
IN THE LISTING, RIGHT?
YEAH YEAH I YEAH I LOOK FOR
LISTING WHAT IS LEFT IN THE OLD
FOURTH WARD.
THERE ARE SIGN TOPPERS RIGHT.
YEAH WE'VE ACTUALLY HAD
APPLICATIONS BEFORE WHERE
PEOPLE SAY I DIDN'T KNOW I WAS
IN HISTORIC DISTRICT.
THIS HAPPENED ONCE LIKE FIFTEEN
YEARS AGO AND THEY SHOWED US A
PHOTO OF THEIR PROPERTY AND A
SIGN WAS IN THE PHOTO BUT THAT
OF COURSE IS DISTRICT SO THEY
BACKED DOWN BUT IT REALLY
DOESN'T HAPPEN VERY OFTEN THAT
PEOPLE BUY PROPERTY WELL
COMPLETELY NOT KNOWING THAT
THEY'RE IN HISTORIC DISTRICT I
GUESS.
YEAH, THERE'S THAT SCENARIO BUT
THEN I FEEL LIKE THEY'RE THERE
IS ANOTHER SCENARIO WITHIN THE
PAST FEW YEARS WHERE IF IT WAS
THE WINDOW REPLACEMENT OR
SOMETHING SOME OTHER WORD AND
THEY SAID OH WE DIDN'T KNOW
YOU'RE IN THE DISTRICT AND AND
YET THAT PROPERTY THE PROPERTY
MANAGER HAD ONLY HAD BEEN
MANAGING THAT PROPERTY FOR
QUITE A LONG TIME.
YEAH.
AND THAT WAS MAYBE LESS
BELIEVABLE AND SOME OF IT IS
YEAH.
AND A LITTLE BIT LIKE SAYING
OFFICER I DIDN'T KNOW THE SPEED
LIMIT WAS RIGHT.
YEAH YEAH.
WELL WILLFUL IGNORANCE.
YEAH I KNOW THAT CONCERN IT IS
A CONCERN CONCERTS ARE CONCERN.
I'M ACTUALLY SIGNED UP FOR A
WEBINAR FROM A NATIONAL
PRESERVATION ALLIANCE ON
WORKING WITH REALTORS.
OK HISTORIC DISTRICTS AND I
DON'T KNOW IF THEY'RE GOING TO
COVER THIS TOPIC BUT IT'S ONE
OF THOSE THINGS THAT YOU KNOW,
I LIKE TO LEARN MORE ABOUT JUST
IN CASE IT'S APPLICABLE.
OK, WELL MY GOOD ALL RIGHT.
WELL I'VE GOT OTHER CONCERNS
HERE.
SHOULD WE MOVE ALONG OK?
ARE THERE ANY COMMUNICATIONS
THIS MONTH?
NO.
WELL THAT BRINGS US TO
ADJOURNMENT THEN AT NINE FORTY
FOUR ON SEPTEMBER 14TH DOUG